Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Main Page From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Welcome to Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia that anyone can edit. 6,414,980 articles in English The arts Biography Geography History Mathematics Science Society Technology All portals From today's featured article The jaguar (Panthera onca) is a large cat and the only Panthera species native to the Americas. With a body length of 1.12 to 1.85 m (3 ft 8 in to 6 ft 1 in) and a weight of 56 to 96 kg (123 to 212 lb), it is the third-largest cat species in the world. Its coat is covered by spots that transition to rosettes on the sides. The jaguar's range extends from the southern U.S. through Mexico and across much of Central America to Paraguay and northern Argentina. It inhabits forested and open terrain, but prefers dense jungle. It is adept at swimming and is largely a solitary, opportunistic, stalk-and-ambush apex predator. The wild jaguar population is thought to have declined since the late 1990s, and is threatened by habitat loss and fragmentation, poaching and human–wildlife conflict. Since 2002, it has been listed as a near-threatened species on the IUCN Red List. The jaguar has featured prominently in indigenous cultures of the Americas, including the Maya and Aztec civilizations. (Full article...) Recently featured: British logistics in the Falklands War Carillon "Fuck the Millennium" Archive By email More featured articles Did you know ... Lyceum Theatre ... that the Lyceum Theatre (pictured) is New York City's oldest continuously operating legitimate theater? ... that Borocera cajani produces a form of wild silk that has been harvested for hundreds of years? ... that after failing to establish a colony for black Americans at Abeokuta, Robert Campbell founded the first newspaper in Lagos? ... that the Central Asian Orogenic Belt is a leading laboratory of geologically recent crustal growth? ... that the Atari 410 Program Recorder was used to store programs on the Atari 8-bit family, but was also used for computer aided instruction? ... that after Jonas Rose wrecked a second ship, he never worked again? ... that the ring shape of the casatiello represents Christ's crown of thorns? ... that James van Riemsdyk once scored a goal for the Philadelphia Flyers on a puck that bounced off of his face and into the net? Archive Start a new article Nominate an article In the news Nicolae Ciuc? A coalition government, led by Prime Minister Nicolae Ciuc? (pictured), takes office in Romania, ending a nearly three-month-long political crisis. At least fifty people are killed in a mining accident in Kemerovo Oblast, Russia. Twenty-seven people die when their dinghy capsizes in the English Channel. The Double Asteroid Redirection Test (DART) mission is launched to attempt to change the orbit of the asteroid moon Dimorphos. Ongoing: COVID-19 pandemic Recent deaths: Virgil Abloh M?rti?š Brauns Frank Williams Almudena Grandes Lubomyra Mandziy Oleksandr Omelchenko Nominate an article On this day November 29: Liberation Day in Albania (1944) Joint session of the National Diet in 2002 903 – The Abbasid Caliphate captured the Qarmatian leadership in the Battle of Hama in Syria, opening the way for the reconquest of Tulunid Egypt. 1776 – American Revolutionary War: British reinforcements brought an end to the Patriot attempt to capture Fort Cumberland in Nova Scotia. 1890 – The National Diet of Japan (pictured in session), a bicameral legislature modelled after both the German Reichstag and the British Westminster system, first met in Tokyo. 1947 – The United Nations General Assembly voted to approve the Partition Plan for Palestine, a plan to resolve the Arab–Israeli conflict in Mandatory Palestine by separating the territory into Jewish and Arab states. 2007 – During their trial for the 2003 Oakwood mutiny, Philippine soldiers led by Senator Antonio Trillanes mutinied and seized a conference room in The Peninsula Manila hotel in Makati. Claudio Monteverdi (d. 1643) Mary Somerville (d. 1872) Lalit Modi (b. 1963) More anniversaries: November 28 November 29 November 30 Archive By email List of days of the year From today's featured list Sigur Rós The Shortlist Music Prize was an annual music award for the best album released in the United States that had sold fewer than 500,000 copies at the time of nomination. First given as a cash prize in 2001 under the name Shortlist Prize for Artistic Achievement in Music, the award was created by two music-industry directors, Greg Spotts and Tom Serig, as an alternative to the commercial Grammy Awards. The recipient was chosen by a panel of members of the entertainment industry and journalists known as "Listmakers". More than 50 of the best albums of the previous twelve months were picked before being narrowed down to the eponymous shortlist, from which a winner was chosen. At the end of 2001, the Icelandic post-rock band Sigur Rós (pictured) became the first recipients following a ceremony at the Hollywood Knitting Factory. The majority of the seven winners were singer-songwriters: Irishman Damien Rice won in 2003, Americans Sufjan Stevens and Cat Power won in 2005 and 2006, respectively, and Canadian Feist won in 2007. (Full list...) Recently featured: Awards and nominations received by Mad Men Counties in Wyoming Cymru Premier Golden Boot Archive More featured lists Today's featured picture The Walchensee Hydroelectric Power Station is a storage power station in Bavaria, Germany. The turbines, seen here, are fed by water from the Walchensee which is then released into the Kochelsee. The power station uses the hydraulic head of about 200 metres (660 ft) between the two natural lakes, and water from the Rißbach river is also used to augment the supply. The installed capacity is 124 MW with an annual production of 300 GWh; this is one of the largest of such power plants in Germany. Photograph credit: Diego Delso Recently featured: A Meeting in the Royal Danish Academy of Sciences and Letters Cygnus Purana tigrina Archive More featured pictures Other areas of Wikipedia Community portal – Bulletin board, projects, resources and activities covering a wide range of Wikipedia areas. Help desk – Ask questions about using Wikipedia. Reference desk – Serving as virtual librarians, Wikipedia volunteers tackle your questions on a wide range of subjects. Site news – Announcements, updates, articles and press releases on Wikipedia and the Wikimedia Foundation. Teahouse – To ask your first basic questions about contributing to Wikipedia. Village pump – For discussions about Wikipedia itself, including areas for technical issues and policies. Wikipedia's sister projects Wikipedia is hosted by the Wikimedia Foundation, a non-profit organization that also hosts a range of other projects: Commons Free media repository MediaWiki Wiki software development Meta-Wiki Wikimedia project coordination Wikibooks Free textbooks and manuals Wikidata Free knowledge base Wikinews Free-content news Wikiquote Collection of quotations Wikisource Free-content library Wikispecies Directory of species Wikiversity Free learning tools Wikivoyage Free travel guide Wiktionary Dictionary and thesaurus Wikipedia languages This Wikipedia is written in English. Many other Wikipedias are available; some of the largest are listed below. 1,000,000+ articles ??????? Deutsch Español Français Italiano Nederlands ??? Polski Português ??????? Svenska ?????????? Ti?ng Vi?t ?? 250,000+ articles Bahasa Indonesia Bahasa Melayu Bân-lâm-gú ????????? Català ?eština Dansk Esperanto Euskara ?????? ????? ??? Magyar Norsk Bokmål Român? Srpski Srpskohrvatski Suomi Türkçe 50,000+ articles Asturianu Bosanski Eesti ???????? Simple English Galego Hrvatski Latviešu Lietuvi? ?????? ?????????? Norsk nynorsk Shqip Sloven?ina Slovenš?ina ??? Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Main_Page&oldid=1004593520" Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Main Page Talk Variants expanded collapsed Views Read View source View history More expanded collapsed Search Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons MediaWiki Meta-Wiki Multilingual Wikisource Wikispecies Wikibooks Wikidata Wikimania Wikinews Wikiquote Wikisource Wikiversity Wikivoyage Wiktionary Languages ??????? ????? ????????? Bosanski Català ?eština Dansk Deutsch Eesti ???????? Español Esperanto Euskara ????? Français Galego ??? Hrvatski Bahasa Indonesia Italiano ????? ??????? Latviešu Lietuvi? Magyar ?????????? Bahasa Melayu Nederlands ??? Norsk bokmål Norsk nynorsk Polski Português Român? ??????? Simple English Sloven?ina Slovenš?ina ?????? / srpski Srpskohrvatski / ?????????????? Suomi Svenska ??? Türkçe ?????????? Ti?ng Vi?t ?? This page was last edited on 3 February 2021, at 11:11 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement