Stack Overflow news and press
Stack Overflow news and press Home Public Questions Tags Users Collectives Explore Collectives Find a Job Jobs Companies Teams Stack Overflow for Teams – Collaborate and share knowledge with a private group. Create a free Team What is Teams? Teams Create free Team Collectives on Stack Overflow Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most. Learn more Teams Q&A for work Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search. Learn more Company Blog Newsletter Podcast Teams Talent Advertising Collectives For Developers About Leadership Careers Open positions Press Research Contact us New here? Take a tour Media kit About Stack Overflow Stack Overflow is empowering the world to build technology through collective knowledge. More than 100 million people come to Stack Overflow’s public platform every month making it one of the 50 most-visited websites in the world. Stack Overflow’s products include a private knowledge sharing and collaboration platform, Stack Overflow for Teams, sub-communities called Collectives™ on Stack Overflow that connect users to the technologies they use most, Stack Overflow Advertising, and Stack Overflow Talent. Organizations such as Bloomberg, Expensify, Instacart, Microsoft, Zapier, and more work with Stack Overflow to help them centralize information, increase efficiency, and build faster. Founded in 2008, Stack Overflow is headquartered in New York. What we do As the most trusted knowledge sharing and collaboration platform, Stack Overflow has three core products: The Public Platform Stack Overflow is where developers and technologists go to gain and share knowledge. Stack Exchange is for non-technical questions and answers such as cooking, biology, and more. Stack Overflow for Teams Where developers and technologists can share private, organization-specific knowledge with coworkers asynchronously. Reach & Relevance Where companies can build their brands and reach the world’s largest audience of developers and technologists through Employer Branding, Advertising, and Collectives™ on Stack Overflow, which are sub-communities that help people more easily adopt and deploy the technologies they use most. Fast Facts Stack Overflow is a company created by developers, for developers, transforming how people work Founded in 2008 by Joel Spolsky and Jeff Atwood, two developers who wanted to make coding resources more accessible for all. Stack Overflow has raised $153 million in funding. Their Series E, announced in July 2020, was an $85 million round led by GIC with participation from Silver Lake Waterman, and existing investors Andreessen Horowitz, Index Ventures, Spark Capital, and Union Square Ventures. Over 1,500 customer organizations work with Stack Overflow to centralize documentation and improve efficiency, including Microsoft, Bloomberg, Chevron, Instacart, Expensify, Zapier, and more. Over 100 million monthly visitors to Stack Overflow’s network, ranking it within the top 50 most visited websites globally. Stack Overflow has helped developers over 50 billion times through its public Q&A forum and its private Teams forums. In the news Recently written about Stack Overflow 11 October 2021 53 entertaining, opinionated VCs on Twitter, Substack, and podcasts you should be following Business Insider 6 October 2021 Python 3.10.0 Offers Basket of New Features for Developers Dice Insights 6 October 2021 10 job boards designed for tech professionals TechRepublic 4 October 2021 9 Job Portals To Help You Land A Data Science Job Analytics India Magazine 1 October 2021 What IBM’s Cloud Issues Can Tell Us About Project Management Dice Insights 1 October 2021 How Much Does The Average Computer Science Graduate Earn? MUO 30 September 2021 There’s a $29 Keyboard That's Programmed to Only Copy and Paste IGN 30 September 2021 This copy-and-paste keyboard for developers started out as a joke. Now it's real - and sold out ZDNet 29 September 2021 Never Miss the Right Buttons with This Copy-Paste Keyboard Nerdist 29 September 2021 Stack Overflow turns April Fool's Day keyboard into a real product TechSpot 29 September 2021 This copy paste keyboard started as an April Fool's joke. Now you can buy one Boing Boing 29 September 2021 You can now buy a keyboard that only copies and pastes The Verge 29 September 2021 You Can Now Buy A Copy-Paste Keyboard For Some Reason ScreenRant 28 September 2021 April Fools' copy-paste button for lazy programmers now actually for sale CNET 27 September 2021 Two months after Microsoft's fee slash, Google prepares to take a lower cut from vendors on Cloud Platform The Register 27 September 2021 IEEE Spectrum Says This Programming Language is Crucial Dice Insights 20 September 2021 Will Google Cloud ever win over enterprises? InfoWorld 7 September 2021 Stack Overflow Names New CFO After Prosus Deal Wall Street Journal In the news archive Company news Press releases from Stack Overflow 7 September 2021 Matthew Gallatin Joins Stack Overflow as Chief Financial Officer 23 June 2021 Stack Overflow Introduces Collectives™, Brings Developers and Technology Organizations Together to Build Faster Through Community 2 June 2021 Prosus to acquire Stack Overflow for US$1.8 billion 17 March 2021 Stack Overflow Launches Free Tier of Stack Overflow for Teams 6 January 2021 Stack Overflow Expands Leadership Team With New Chief People Officer, Debbie Shotwell 1 October 2020 Stack Overflow Completes SOC 2 Type II Audit 28 July 2020 Stack Overflow raises $85M in Series E funding to further accelerate SaaS business 15 January 2020 Stack Overflow Bolsters Leadership Team With New Chief Product Officer, Teresa Dietrich 24 September 2019 Stack Overflow Names Prashanth Chandrasekar New CEO Resources Whether you’re looking for the latest developer insights or more information on Stack Overflow’s product lines, here are some links that will help you: Leadership bios and headshots Blog for the latest commentary, company news, and insights. The Stack Overflow Podcast is a frank and funny conversation about what it means to work in software and how code is reshaping our world. Annual Developer Survey is a report summarizing survey results from the world’s largest developer community. Media inquiries press@stackoverflow.com Need our logo or brand guidelines? Grab them here Product images Feel free to use these if you need to visualize Stack Overflow. Stack Overflow for Teams Collectives™ on Stack Overflow Stack Overflow Advertising Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Help Mobile Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Service Contact Us Cookie Settings Cookie Policy Stack Exchange Network Technology Culture & recreation Life & arts Science Professional Business API Data Blog Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram site design / logo © 2021 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa. rev 2021.11.30.40849 Stack Overflow works best with JavaScript enabled Your privacy By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy. Accept all cookies Customize settings