Portal:Society - Wikipedia
Portal:Society - Wikipedia Portal:Society From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Wikimedia portal Portal maintenance status: (February 2020) This portal's subpages have been checked by an editor, and are needed. Please take care when editing, especially if using automated editing software. Learn how to update the maintenance information here. Portal topics Activities Culture Geography Health History Mathematics Nature People Philosophy Religion Society Technology Random portal edit The Society Portal World Summit on the Information Society, Geneva A society is a group of individuals involved in persistent social interaction, or a large social group sharing the same spatial or social territory, typically subject to the same political authority and dominant cultural expectations. Societies are characterized by patterns of relationships (social relations) between individuals who share a distinctive culture and institutions; a given society may be described as the sum total of such relationships among its constituent of members. In the social sciences, a larger society often exhibits stratification or dominance patterns in subgroups. Societies construct patterns of behavior by deeming certain actions or speech as acceptable or unacceptable. These patterns of behavior within a given society are known as societal norms. Societies, and their norms, undergo gradual and perpetual changes. Insofar as it is collaborative, a society can enable its members to benefit in ways that would otherwise be difficult on an individual basis; both individual and social (common) benefits can thus be distinguished, or in many cases found to overlap. A society can also consist of like-minded people governed by their own norms and values within a dominant, larger society. This is sometimes referred to as a subculture, a term used extensively within criminology, and also applied to distinctive subsections of a larger society. More broadly, and especially within structuralist thought, a society may be illustrated as an economic, social, industrial or cultural infrastructure, made up of, yet distinct from, a varied collection of individuals. In this regard society can mean the objective relationships people have with the material world and with other people, rather than "other people" beyond the individual and their familiar social environment. (Full article...) Outline of society Index Refresh with new selections below (purge) edit Selected article Lesbian is a term most widely used in the English language to describe sexual and romantic desire between females. Lesbian, as a concept, is used to differentiate women with a shared sexual orientation, and the concept is a 20th-century construct. Throughout history, women have not had the freedom or independence to pursue homosexual relationships where men have. However, they also have not met the same harsh punishment in some societies as homosexual men. In the past, lesbian relationships were sometimes regarded as harmless unless the participants attempted to pursue privileges traditionally enjoyed by their peers. As a result, little in history has been documented to give an accurate description of how female homosexuality has been expressed. When early sexologists in the late 19th century began to categorize and describe homosexual behavior, hampered by a lack of knowledge about lesbianism or women's sexuality, they distinguished lesbians as women who did not adhere to female gender roles and designated them mentally ill. Women in homosexual relationships responded to this designation either by hiding their personal lives or accepting the label of outcast and creating a subculture and identity that developed in Europe and the United States. Women exhibit sexual fluidity; some women who engage in homosexual behavior may reject identifying as lesbian or as bisexual. Greater understanding of women's sexuality has led to three components to identifying lesbians: sexual behavior, sexual desire, or sexual identity. More selected articles More... edit Featured picture Credit: Artist: Daniel A. Jenks; Restoration: Papa Lima Whiskey A drawing of travelers on the California Trail, one of the major emigrant trails across the Western United States used by over 250,000 people heading west during the California Gold Rush. This, combined with those coming from the east across the Isthmus of Panama or around Cape Horn, greatly increased the population of California, and spurred the movement to make it the 31st U.S. state. More selected pictures Read more edit Did you know... ... that combat medic David B. Bleak was awarded the Medal of Honor in the Korean War after killing five Chinese soldiers, four using only his hands? ... that Dražen Bogopenec was one of the most powerful people of Hum (pictured)? ... that the Lienzo de Quauhquechollan, produced by Nahua artists in the 1530s, is one of the earliest maps of what is now Guatemala? More did you know facts edit Anniversaries this month 1 and 2 November - Day of the Dead tradition (pictured) among Mexican people 15 November 1982 - Chinese Society Halls on Maui placed on the National Register of Historic Places 17 November 1989 - IEEE Computational Intelligence Society was formed as the IEEE Neural Networks Council 26 November 1825 - Foundation of the Kappa Alpha Society, the progenitor of the modern fraternity system in North America More anniversaries... edit Selected quote “ Comedy is the art of making people laugh without making them puke. ” — Steve Martin More selected quotes More at Wikiquote edit Selected biography Chrysippus of Soli Chrysippus of Soli (Ancient Greek: ????????? ? ??????, Chrysippos ho Soleus; c. 279 BC – c. 206 BC) was a Greek Stoic philosopher. He was a native of Soli, Cilicia, but moved to Athens as a young man, where he became a pupil of Cleanthes in the Stoic school. When Cleanthes died, around 230 BC, Chrysippus became the third head of the school. A prolific writer, Chrysippus expanded the fundamental doctrines of Zeno of Citium, the founder of the school, which earned him the title of Second Founder of Stoicism. Chrysippus excelled in logic, the theory of knowledge, ethics and physics. He created an original system of propositional logic in order to better understand the workings of the universe and role of humanity within it. He adhered to a deterministic view of fate, but nevertheless sought a role for personal freedom in thought and action. Ethics, he taught, depended on understanding the nature of the universe, and he taught a therapy of extirpating the unruly passions which depress and crush the soul. He initiated the success of Stoicism as one of the most influential philosophical movements for centuries in the Greek and Roman world. (Full article...) More selected biographies edit Featured audio Ordo Virtutum From Ordo Virtutum (c.1151) by Abbess Hildegard of Bingen (1098–1179). Performed by Makemi. More selected audio Read more edit Categories Society Society portal Society by continent Society by nationality Sociology Fictional society Anti-social behaviour Business Civil society Clubs and societies Communication Corporate groups Crime Culture Disability Economics Education Social events Family Feminism and society Society in fiction Folklore Health Social history Home Humans Inequality Social institutions Social issues Society-related lists Mating systems Matronymics Medicine in society Military Society museums Nationality Organizations Patronymics People Philosophy and society Politics Postindustrial society Private law Race and society Religion and society Rural society Science in society Sexuality and society Social change Social media Social responsibility Social sciences Social work Socioeconomics Technology in society Water and society Category Wikipedia books on society not found Society portals edit Related portals Arts Biography Education Freedom of speech Human sexuality Internet Law LGBT Philosophy Psychology Politics Religion Technology Writing edit Recognized content Featured articles 2012 phenomenon 1969 Curaçao uprising Digital media use and mental health Diocletianic Persecution W. E. B. Du Bois Female genital mutilation From the Doctor to My Son Thomas Fuck (film) Fuck: Word Taboo and Protecting Our First Amendment Liberties 1981 Irish hunger strike Solo Man Rosewood massacre Stonewall riots George Washington and slavery Featured lists List of awards and nominations received by Penn & Teller: Bullshit! Good articles Timeline of the Egyptian revolution of 2011 Acting white African Americans in Omaha, Nebraska Agriculture Algorithmic bias America's 60 Families Anarchism Anarchism in Cuba Anonymous (hacker group) Anti-nuclear movement in Australia Anna Apostolaki Archaeoastronomy Aroused (film) 2008 attacks on Christians in southern Karnataka Australopithecus africanus Australopithecus afarensis Australopithecus bahrelghazali Australopithecus deyiremeda Australopithecus garhi Australopithecus sediba Balangoda Man Before the Dawn (book) Birth control Black Lives Matter Boerehaat The Bog People Bomis Cueva de las Manos Child prostitution History of Christian thought on persecution and tolerance A Community of Witches Compulsory Miseducation Cult film Potential cultural impact of extraterrestrial contact Culture of the Song dynasty Cutting the Mustard Hilda Ellis Davidson Demographic history of Scotland Demographics of the Supreme Court of the United States Denisovan Deus Ex: Human Revolution Diaphoneme Diver communications Dmanisi hominins Double burden Dreamtime (book) Émile Durkheim EST and The Forum in popular culture Early European modern humans Ely and Littleport riots of 1816 Extremely online Family structure in the United States Feminism Feminist economics The finger First World Forensic anthropology Free Expression Policy Project Stephen Fuchs Genetically modified organism Anca Giurchescu God's Choice Erving Goffman Growing Up Absurd Herto Man Historiography of the Crusades History of agriculture Hitachi Magic Wand Winifred Hoernlé Homo rudolfensis Homo antecessor Homo ergaster Homo habilis Homo heidelbergensis Homo luzonensis Homo naledi Hooray Henry Human Human interactions with insects I Ching Globalization and women in China Incel Ivatan people Java Man Joint custody (United States) Kirkbride Plan Theodora Kroeber Language Lantian Man Ralph Larkin Lesbian Magic, Witchcraft and the Otherworld The Man-Eating Myth March for Our Lives Portland March for Science Portland March of loyalty to martyrs Karl Marx Josef Mengele A More Perfect Union: Advancing New American Rights Mork Goes Erk Mountain Meadows Massacre Myth of the clean Wehrmacht Native American mascot controversy Neanderthal New World Order (conspiracy theory) No Lifeguard on Duty Nonviolent Communication Not My Presidents Day Not in Front of the Children On the Internet, nobody knows you're a dog Otaku Ovulatory shift hypothesis Paranthropus Paranthropus aethiopicus Paranthropus boisei Paranthropus robustus Peking Man Persecution of Zoroastrians Political party Polyethnicity Pozna? protests of 1956 Protests in Canada against the Sri Lankan Civil War Proto-globalization Aparna Rao A Rape on Campus Reborn doll Herbert Hope Risley The Road to Total Freedom Romania in the Early Middle Ages Rose Street Club Royal intermarriage Edward Said Sex, Sin, and Blasphemy Sheng nu Silver Simele massacre Kateryna Skarzhynska Social identity theory Sociology Sociology of leisure Stay-at-home dad Stratford Dialectical and Radical Club Sustainability Tautavel Man Team effectiveness Tefillin Think of the children Truce term Max Weber Weiquan movement Who We Are and How We Got Here Benjamin Lee Whorf Women's March on Portland Yuanmou Man Florian Znaniecki Featured pictures 20151030 Syrians and Iraq refugees arrive at Skala Sykamias Lesvos Greece 2 Bertillon, Alphonse, fiche anthropométrique recto-verso Cicatrices de flagellation sur un esclave Play media Daisy (1964) DurbanSign1989 Frances Benjamin Johnston, Self-Portrait (as "New Woman"), 1896 Jane Addams - Bain News Service Marine da nang Play media Nanook of the North SantaCruz-CuevaManos-P2210651b Xiahe mandible edit Things you can do Here are some tasks awaiting attention: Article requests?: Check article requests in Business and economics topics • Social sciences topics • Requested pictures of society topics Assess?: Check article deletion discussions listed at Deletion sorting – Social science Cleanup?: check new articles for cleanup from Sociology-related new article feed Copyedit?: Check Sociology article alerts for interesting articles to copyedit Expand?: Expand articles in categories including: Culture, Law, Education, Politics Featured article candidates?: Review society-related articles submitted at Featured Article candidates, especially those at FAC urgents Good article nominations?: Check out articles under review for Good Article candidacy, in the Social sciences and society section Maintain?: Check the recent changes page for improvements, other changes, and vandalism to these articles Stubs?: Take on project for improvement of one of the Sociology stubs Verify?: Articles with notability concerns, listed at WikiProject Notability edit WikiProjects Related projects Community Ethnic groups Family and relationships Former countries Gender Studies LGBT studies Literature Sexology and sexuality Sociology Travel and Tourism What are WikiProjects? edit Web resources Definition of Society from the OED. Internet Modern History Sourcebook: Industrial Revolution "The Day the World Took Off" Six part video series from the University of Cambridge tracing the question "Why did the Industrial Revolution begin when and where it did." BBC History Home Page – Industrial Revolution National Museum of Science and Industry website – machines and personalities Industrial Revolution and the Standard of Living by Clark Nardinelli - the debate over whether standards of living rose or fell. edit Associated Wikimedia Society on Wikibooks Society on Wikimedia Commons Society on Wikinews Society on Wikiquote Society on Wikisource Society on Wikiversity Society on Wiktionary Manuals and books Images and media News Quotations Texts Learning resources Definitions Portals Activities Culture Geography Health History Mathematics Nature People Philosophy Religion Society Technology Random portal What are portals? List of portals Sub-pages of Portal:Society Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Society&oldid=1054073354" Categories: All portals Society portal Society Society portals Hidden categories: Portals with short description Wikipedia semi-protected portals Wikipedia move-protected portals Portals with triaged subpages from February 2020 All portals with triaged subpages Portals with no named maintainer Random portal component with more available subpages than specified max Random portal component with 31–40 available subpages Random portal component with 31–40 available image subpages Random portal component with 16–20 available subpages Past featured portals Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Portal Talk Variants expanded collapsed Views Read View source View history More expanded collapsed Search Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version Languages Alemannisch ??????? ???? Bân-lâm-gú ????????? ?????????? (???????????) Boarisch Català Cebuano Deutsch Eesti ????? Français Frysk G?k?y? Bahasa Indonesia ????? Kapampangan ??????? ??????? Kiswahili Lëtzebuergesch Magyar ?????????? ???? ??? Nederlands ??? ??????? Norsk bokmål Norsk nynorsk Occitan ?????? Polski Português ??????? ????? Soomaaliga ????? Suomi Tacl?it Taqbaylit ???????/tatarça ????????? Türkçe ???? ?????? ?? Zazaki ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 7 November 2021, at 22:23 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement