Stack Overflow Blog - Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow.
Stack Overflow Blog - Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company code-for-a-living November 29, 2021 The four engineering metrics that will streamline your software delivery Productive teams get product fixes and features out the door fast. Here's the metrics to check to see how your team is delivering. Tanaka Mutakwa Content Marketer cooking November 24, 2021 Exploding turkeys and how not to thaw your frozen bird: Top turkey questions from our Cooking Stack Exchange You’ve got questions, we’ve got Seasoned Advice on how to prepare the perfect Thanksgiving meal. Eira May company November 17, 2021 Introducing Content Health, a new way to keep the knowledge base up-to-date We’re thrilled to announce a new and foundational feature, Content Health, that helps to intelligently identify and surface potentially outdated or inaccurate knowledge—content that needs to change. Lori Colston Sr. Product Marketing Manager code-for-a-living November 15, 2021 Building a QA process for your deep learning pipeline in practice Deep learning models still need testing, but many of the common testing approaches don't apply. But with the right methods, you can still make sure your pipeline produces good results. Tobias Kupek Content Marketer Most popular code-for-a-livingMarch 2, 2020 Best practices for REST API design code-for-a-livingNovember 29, 2021 The four engineering metrics that will streamline your software delivery code-for-a-livingNovember 1, 2021 Why SOLID principles are still the foundation for modern software architecture code-for-a-livingOctober 6, 2021 Best practices for REST API security: Authentication and authorization The Stack Overflow Podcast is a weekly conversation about working in software development, learning to code, and the art and culture of computer programming. November 30, 2021 Podcast 396: Does modern parenting require spyware? Should developers build tools for parents to monitor every aspect of their children's digital lives? Listen now November 23, 2021 Podcast 395: Who is building clouds for the independent developer? Big enterprise clients looking for "lift and shift" are lucrative clients in the cloud market. But there are also millions of independent developers who need cloud tech at their scale. Listen now November 22, 2021 Who owns this outage? Building intelligent escalation chains for modern SRE Before your organization can resolve an issue, it has to figure out who is on deck to respond. Listen now November 19, 2021 Podcast 394: what if you could invest in your favorite developer? Get your Benjamins before they blow up. Listen now code-for-a-living November 10, 2021 Does ES6 make JavaScript frameworks obsolete? Is ES6 the JavaScript release that will finally free us from the endless cycle of frameworks? Theodoros ‘Theo’ Karasavvas and Ryan Donovan code-for-a-living November 8, 2021 Adapting a design system to work for the Metaverse Design systems enable developers and designers to rapidly develop products that are consistent across all platforms. Existing design standards could be directly applied in the Metaverse. But many other concepts, unique to 3D environments, required a lot of definition. Mike Wolfson Content Marketer November 3, 2021 Intel joins Collectives™ on Stack Overflow Intel is now on Collectives™ on Stack Overflow. Jascha Drel company November 2, 2021 Our new and enhanced Microsoft Teams integration With new features and tweaks to the Stack Overflow for Teams integration with Microsoft Teams, we’re sure that the new and improved Version 2 will come in handy. This article provides additional context around the evolution of this integration and how it might be useful to your organization! Vasudha Swaminathan code-for-a-living November 1, 2021 Why SOLID principles are still the foundation for modern software architecture While computing has changed a lot in the 20 years since the SOLID principles were conceived, they are still the best practices for designing software. Daniel Orner Content Marketer community October 27, 2021 Strong teams are more than just connected, they are communities Organizations and leaders have a responsibility to ensure people are heard, to build high levels of trust and enable them to show up authentically— all so they can do their best work. Prashanth Chandrasekar CEO code-for-a-living October 25, 2021 Node.js makes fullstack programming easy with server-side JavaScript Here's why JavaScript has been the language of choice for front-end and back-end web dev. Theodoros ‘Theo’ Karasavvas Content Marketer Posts navigation 1 2 3 4 5 … 105 Next posts by author or Search for: Want updates to your inbox? Every week we’ll share a collection of great questions from our community, news and articles from our blog, and awesome links from around the web. Previous issues Subscribe on Stack Overflow RSS Feed November 26, 2021 The Overflow #101: Invest in your favorite developer Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams November 19, 2021 The Overflow #100! Web3! .NET 6! We love numbers! Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams November 12, 2021 The Overflow #99: These principles are still SOLID Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams November 5, 2021 The Overflow #98: Front end: JavaScript. Back end: Also JavaScript. Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram