windows subsystem for linux - How to efficiently yank to system clipboard in WSL2 neovim? - Stack Overflow
windows subsystem for linux - How to efficiently yank to system clipboard in WSL2 neovim? - Stack Overflow Stack Overflow About Products For Teams Stack Overflow Public questions & answers Stack Overflow for Teams Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers Jobs Programming & related technical career opportunities Talent Recruit tech talent & build your employer brand Advertising Reach developers & technologists worldwide About the company Loading… Log in Sign up current community Stack Overflow help chat Meta Stack Overflow your communities Sign up or log in to customize your list. more stack exchange communities company blog Home Public Questions Tags Users Collectives Explore Collectives Find a Job Jobs Companies Teams Stack Overflow for Teams – Collaborate and share knowledge with a private group. Create a free Team What is Teams? Teams Create free Team Collectives on Stack Overflow Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most. Learn more Teams Q&A for work Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search. Learn more How to efficiently yank to system clipboard in WSL2 neovim? Ask Question Asked today Active today Viewed 9 times 0 I've installed win32yank through chocolatey and changed clipboard setting in init.vim: set clipboard=unnamedplus
 Everything works however I notice that copy and paste operations now have very slight but noticeable delay. Is there any alternative way to copy to system clipboard? (I'm using neovim in WSL2 Ubuntu) windows-subsystem-for-linux neovim Share Follow edited 3 hours ago romainl 165k2020 gold badges248248 silver badges282282 bronze badges asked 3 hours ago hmukoshmukos 3344 bronze badges Add a comment | 0 Active Oldest Votes Know someone who can answer? Share a link to this question via email, Twitter, or Facebook. Your Answer Thanks for contributing an answer to Stack Overflow! Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research! But avoid … Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers. Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience. To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers. Draft saved Draft discarded Sign up or log in Sign up using Google Sign up using Facebook Sign up using Email and Password Submit Post as a guest Name Email Required, but never shown Post as a guest Name Email Required, but never shown Post Your Answer Discard By clicking “Post Your Answer”, you agree to our terms of service, privacy policy and cookie policy Browse other questions tagged windows-subsystem-for-linux neovim or ask your own question. The Overflow Blog The four engineering metrics that will streamline your software delivery Podcast 396: Does modern parenting require spyware? Featured on Meta Reducing the weight of our footer Two B or not two B - Farewell, BoltClock and Bhargav! Community input needed: The rules for collectives articles Related 1 Solarized in NeoVim on iTerm 1 and 2 has incorrect background for dark theme 0 Avoiding paste content to be executed in normal mode in Neovim/WSL/ConEmu 0 How to copy/paste from windows application to vim-gnome (running via ssh to linux server) by KEYBOARD ONLY 2 Windows Terminal profile not showing up 0 How to yank to X clipboard with VSCode Neovim extension? Hot Network Questions What is the difference between /lib and /usr/lib and /var/lib? Lowest tech level for a civilization to widely produce fake meat Double entry bookkeeping - Record incoming money which I would hold temporarily as a custodian What is the most unique type of philosophy someone can naturally develop? strcat_new() function, not present in standard C library How to detect power cut remotely? Photo Competition 2021-11-29: Sliver Skim excess power from a resonant circuit without draining it? Why was Pepsi free in 1985? Matrix to triangle Can I initialize only one qubit in a 4-qubit circuit? Name of a live-action Saturday morning show from the '70s, involving bigfoot/caveman? How does a smart contract "run on a blockchain" under-the-hood? Meaning of 'white mask on my otherwise tan face' What sign language does Makkari use? What is the noun to express the state of a simple person? Geometric conditional Probability Why can the UK's Competition and Markets Authority tell Facebook to sell Giphy? Converting polygon to list of coordinates with shapely Does the AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine (or any known vaccine) increase infection rates? How to correctly use lists inside Compile Without Haste, what Efficiency level does a Pickaxe need to insta-mine Stone? Why do I get through so many exhaust pipes? What is the difference between a waiting move and zugzwang? more hot questions Question feed Subscribe to RSS Question feed To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader. Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Help Mobile Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Service Contact Us Cookie Settings Cookie Policy Stack Exchange Network Technology Culture & recreation Life & arts Science Professional Business API Data Blog Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram site design / logo © 2021 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa. rev 2021.11.30.40849 Stack Overflow works best with JavaScript enabled Your privacy By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy. Accept all cookies Customize settings