how I can run cypress script with the variable provided by user - Stack Overflow
how I can run cypress script with the variable provided by user - Stack Overflow Stack Overflow About Products For Teams Stack Overflow Public questions & answers Stack Overflow for Teams Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers Jobs Programming & related technical career opportunities Talent Recruit tech talent & build your employer brand Advertising Reach developers & technologists worldwide About the company Loading… Log in Sign up current community Stack Overflow help chat Meta Stack Overflow your communities Sign up or log in to customize your list. more stack exchange communities company blog Home Public Questions Tags Users Collectives Explore Collectives Find a Job Jobs Companies Teams Stack Overflow for Teams – Collaborate and share knowledge with a private group. Create a free Team What is Teams? Teams Create free Team Collectives on Stack Overflow Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most. Learn more Teams Q&A for work Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search. Learn more how I can run cypress script with the variable provided by user Ask Question Asked today Active today Viewed 6 times 0 I have cypress script that runs on different environment and the spec files look like this describe('Whitelabel Login', () => {
  it('Whitelabel Login', () => {
    const whitelabelBaseUrl = whitelabelUrl =>
      whitelabelUrl.replace('://', '://motivaction.')

    cy.visit(whitelabelBaseUrl(Cypress.config('whitelabelUrl')))
    cy.screenshot('Whitelbel Login page', { capture: 'fullPage' })
    cy.visit(`${whitelabelBaseUrl(Cypress.config('whitelabelUrl'))}/logout`)
    cy.screenshot('Whitelbel Logout page', { capture: 'fullPage' })
  })
})```
So when I am running the script npx cypress run --env name=qa wl=seedling

then I want `motivaction` to be replaces by seedling is there any way that I can achieve it
 cypress Share Follow asked 4 hours ago Rita Basu-ghoshRita Basu-ghosh 2922 bronze badges Add a comment | 1 Answer 1 Active Oldest Votes 0 You can reference variables passed in through the --env flag in the CLI via Cypress.env('var-name'). Cypress documentation here const whitelabelBaseUrl = whitelabelUrl.replace('://', `://${Cypress.env('wl')}.`)
 Share Follow answered 3 hours ago agoffagoff 1,44011 gold badge33 silver badges1313 bronze badges Add a comment | Your Answer Thanks for contributing an answer to Stack Overflow! Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research! But avoid … Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers. Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience. To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers. Draft saved Draft discarded Sign up or log in Sign up using Google Sign up using Facebook Sign up using Email and Password Submit Post as a guest Name Email Required, but never shown Post as a guest Name Email Required, but never shown Post Your Answer Discard By clicking “Post Your Answer”, you agree to our terms of service, privacy policy and cookie policy Not the answer you're looking for? Browse other questions tagged cypress or ask your own question. The Overflow Blog The four engineering metrics that will streamline your software delivery Podcast 396: Does modern parenting require spyware? Featured on Meta Reducing the weight of our footer Two B or not two B - Farewell, BoltClock and Bhargav! Community input needed: The rules for collectives articles Related 21 How can I get Cypress to run a specific folder of tests by specifying it as a project? 1 Using a GitLab CI/CD pipeline, how can I run Cypress tests on the Front-End of a Docker-hosted Database? 0 Unable to run tests in a specific location 1 How to pass values from command line to cypress spec file? 1 cypress download: "cypress run" appears to be the same as "cypress open" 0 Replicate "Run all specs" cypress test runner functionality via command line 0 Using Cypress how to run a pre-test code on 1 domain before executing all tests on another domain 0 How can I pass an env name to Cypress tests to load a set of env variables? Hot Network Questions Can I use a 2x10 rear derailleur with 3 front rings? Can a giant mountain be used as a wind shield? How to deal with a PhD supervisor that acts like a company manager? How can I patch a hole on the underside of an inner tube? How to treat Copyleft Open Source licenses? Converting polygon to list of coordinates with shapely Can I initialize only one qubit in a 4-qubit circuit? Why does 'find' command on Alpine seem to require escaping '?' but not on Ubuntu? Can I include GPLv3 licensed documentation in a collection of GFDL licensed documents, or: what are the limits of an "Aggregate" in GFDLv1.3/GPLv3? Without Haste, what Efficiency level does a Pickaxe need to insta-mine Stone? strcat_new() function, not present in standard C library Hand-to-Hand Combat with Exoskeletons Double entry bookkeeping - Record incoming money which I would hold temporarily as a custodian Regression Models when the Covariates have many Zeros Would authors be too powerful for your typical medieval fantasy setting? Book or story where humans are genetically engineered to act as AI? Was the Harcourt COVID-19 isolate paper ever published? Some Questions About Sentence Clauses TERM system environment variable not set - Windows 10 Geometric conditional Probability Laser and mirrors on a 4x4 grid What size are these mosaics of Justinian and Theodora? Copy content between floppy disks on Apple II Can C++ deduce argument type from default value? more hot questions Question feed Subscribe to RSS Question feed To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader. Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Help Mobile Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Service Contact Us Cookie Settings Cookie Policy Stack Exchange Network Technology Culture & recreation Life & arts Science Professional Business API Data Blog Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram site design / logo © 2021 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa. rev 2021.11.30.40849 Stack Overflow works best with JavaScript enabled Your privacy By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy. Accept all cookies Customize settings