github actions - Azure Defender for ACR - CI/CD scan results not shown - Stack Overflow
github actions - Azure Defender for ACR - CI/CD scan results not shown - Stack Overflow Stack Overflow About Products For Teams Stack Overflow Public questions & answers Stack Overflow for Teams Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers Jobs Programming & related technical career opportunities Talent Recruit tech talent & build your employer brand Advertising Reach developers & technologists worldwide About the company Loading… Log in Sign up current community Stack Overflow help chat Meta Stack Overflow your communities Sign up or log in to customize your list. more stack exchange communities company blog Home Public Questions Tags Users Collectives Explore Collectives Find a Job Jobs Companies Teams Stack Overflow for Teams – Collaborate and share knowledge with a private group. Create a free Team What is Teams? Teams Create free Team Collectives on Stack Overflow Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most. Learn more Teams Q&A for work Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search. Learn more Azure Defender for ACR - CI/CD scan results not shown Ask Question Asked today Active today Viewed 7 times 0 I am scanning my docker image at build time with the github action Container Image Scan, but the CI/CD scan results do not show in Defender. You can see in this run that the scan was successful and found enough vulnerabilities (medium, high and criticals). The post scan to appinsights was also successful and I double checked that the connection string + token were correctly set as secrets in github. In defender I don't see the CI/CD scan results for the scanned image. I followed this procedure which always used to work. No clue on why it does not work anymore. First thing that came to mind is that it doesn't work anymore since the rebranding of ASC to Defender for Cloud. azure github-actions azure-defender azure-security-center Share Follow asked 4 hours ago bramvdkbramvdk 1,02122 gold badges1414 silver badges2828 bronze badges Add a comment | 0 Active Oldest Votes Know someone who can answer? Share a link to this question via email, Twitter, or Facebook. Your Answer Thanks for contributing an answer to Stack Overflow! Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research! But avoid … Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers. Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience. To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers. Draft saved Draft discarded Sign up or log in Sign up using Google Sign up using Facebook Sign up using Email and Password Submit Post as a guest Name Email Required, but never shown Post as a guest Name Email Required, but never shown Post Your Answer Discard By clicking “Post Your Answer”, you agree to our terms of service, privacy policy and cookie policy Browse other questions tagged azure github-actions azure-defender azure-security-center or ask your own question. The Overflow Blog The four engineering metrics that will streamline your software delivery Podcast 396: Does modern parenting require spyware? Featured on Meta Reducing the weight of our footer Two B or not two B - Farewell, BoltClock and Bhargav! Community input needed: The rules for collectives articles Related 19 How to Integrate GitLab-Ci w/ Azure Kubernetes + Kubectl + ACR for Deployments? 1 How to use Docker image from GitHub Packages? 1 Azure Devops - release pipeline with docker and Azure Container Registry (ACR) - problem with tag 8 Create dependencies between jobs in GitHub Actions 0 How to determine which blobs Azure Defender will work for? 1 Azure Purview - Scan file types 1 Enable Azure Defender for all resource types using Azure Policies 0 Application does not retrieve secrets from github through docker build 0 What are the required Roles to remediate Azure Defender and Security Center vulnerability assessment? Hot Network Questions Matrix to triangle Reference request: Generic k3 surface has Picard number 1 Array of Object to the single Object Hand-to-Hand Combat with Exoskeletons Can I include GPLv3 licensed documentation in a collection of GFDL licensed documents, or: what are the limits of an "Aggregate" in GFDLv1.3/GPLv3? Reuse picture for visa (US & EU) Lowest tech level for a civilization to widely produce fake meat Is it a good idea to respond at all if a person I never heard of is asking for a reference letter? What are some good strategies to test a floating point arithmetic implementation for double numbers? Can I initialize only one qubit in a 4-qubit circuit? VLC won't work on Ubuntu 20.04.3 LTS Which of the Eternals were based on mythological characters? DC-DC Converter output: 6.21 V instead of 5.5 V Can a US physician prescribe meds to non-US residents? Why does 'find' command on Alpine seem to require escaping '?' but not on Ubuntu? Ways to send data with CRC validation Laser and mirrors on a 4x4 grid Remove matching lines from all files All distances different on a chessboard What is the difference between a waiting move and zugzwang? strcat_new() function, not present in standard C library Converting polygon to list of coordinates with shapely Can sound travel through light? How did the classic Macintosh come to use Eurocard connectors? more hot questions Question feed Subscribe to RSS Question feed To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader. lang-yaml Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Help Mobile Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Service Contact Us Cookie Settings Cookie Policy Stack Exchange Network Technology Culture & recreation Life & arts Science Professional Business API Data Blog Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram site design / logo © 2021 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa. rev 2021.11.30.40849 Stack Overflow works best with JavaScript enabled Your privacy By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy. Accept all cookies Customize settings