Newest 'azure' Questions - Stack Overflow
Newest 'azure' Questions - Stack Overflow Stack Overflow About Products For Teams Stack Overflow Public questions & answers Stack Overflow for Teams Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers Jobs Programming & related technical career opportunities Talent Recruit tech talent & build your employer brand Advertising Reach developers & technologists worldwide About the company Loading… Log in Sign up current community Stack Overflow help chat Meta Stack Overflow your communities Sign up or log in to customize your list. more stack exchange communities company blog Home Public Questions Tags Users Collectives Explore Collectives Find a Job Jobs Companies Teams Stack Overflow for Teams – Collaborate and share knowledge with a private group. Create a free Team What is Teams? Teams Create free Team Collectives on Stack Overflow Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most. Learn more Teams Q&A for work Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search. Learn more Questions tagged [azure] Ask Question Microsoft Azure is a Platform as a Service and Infrastructure as a Service cloud computing platform. Use this tag for programming questions concerning Azure. General server help can be obtained at Super User or Server Fault. Learn more… Top users Synonyms (2) azure jobs 111,931 questions Newest Active Bountied 4 Unanswered More Bountied 4 Unanswered Frequent Votes Unanswered (my tags) Filter Filter by No answers No accepted answer Has bounty Sorted by Newest Recent activity Most votes Most frequent Bounty ending soon Tagged with My watched tags The following tags: Apply filter Cancel -1 votes 0answers 6 views Can openstack be run of a Windows VM? I am trying to run openstack on a windows VM, but quiet not able to succeced, Does anyone have gone thru this ? windows amazon-web-services azure openstack asked 17 mins ago aravind murali 3922 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 3 views How to add policy to Product in Azure API Management I need help with adding policy to PRODUCT in Azure APIM. Could you please let me know how we can achieve using PowerShell/Azure Cli/ Azure DevOps? azure azure-api-management apim asked 38 mins ago Madhu 34911 gold badge33 silver badges1111 bronze badges -1 votes 0answers 6 views How to set up SSH tunnel/proxy to access a server with private IPs I need help setting up ssh tunnels/proxies. I have a Kubernetes cluster running on Azure. Inside the cluster, I have 1 control node and 1 worker node with pods running for application A. This is the ... azure kubernetes ssh cloud ssh-tunnel asked 47 mins ago Christina Do 1 0 votes 0answers 11 views Angular Service HttpClient API requests 404 in production, but not locally I have an Angular web app, and a backend Node JS API, both hosted on Azure in Web Apps. I have used postman to verify that the API is running correctly. My local Dev version of the Angular app also ... node.js angular azure azure-web-app-service webapi asked 59 mins ago S Bradshaw 6411 silver badge66 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 6 views Azure App Insights - Items missing from application map? Take a look at this screenshot: You will notice that my app is handling 230k calls, which I know are REST http1.1 calls. My issue is: there are no arrows pointing TOWARDS the circle, only away! as if ... azure azure-application-insights asked 2 hours ago Leonardo 9,19199 gold badges5252 silver badges127127 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 9 views Basic blob download fails using com.azure.storage.blob package with java.nio.channels.ClosedChannelException in Scala I am trying to replicate a simple example in Scala from the Azure Storage Blob client library for Java - Version 12.14.2 documentation, but am only able to get java.nio.channels.ClosedChannelException.... java azure scala azure-java-sdk asked 2 hours ago Traber 111 bronze badge 0 votes 0answers 7 views Azure (provider: Named Pipes Provider, error: 40 - Could not open a connection to SQL Server) I am trying to deploy a basic .net webform app using azure. it gives me the following error when i try to login in one of the webpages (provider: Named Pipes Provider, error: 40 - Could not open a ... c# asp.net .net azure webforms asked 3 hours ago 000mzmx 1 0 votes 0answers 7 views Azure Defender for ACR - CI/CD scan results not shown I am scanning my docker image at build time with the github action Container Image Scan, but the CI/CD scan results do not show in Defender. You can see in this run that the scan was successful and ... azure github-actions azure-defender azure-security-center asked 4 hours ago bramvdk 1,02122 gold badges1414 silver badges2828 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 5 views MS Teams CallRecord: where is the first CallSegment and how I can access it? in the call seen in the next image, the 2nd user has 2 Call segment but in the call record on the last one is shown. If my mind is correct i left the call and joined later again. See parts of the ... azure microsoft-graph-api webhooks asked 4 hours ago ingo_ww 5377 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 19 views Azure managed cassandra cluster public IP I am creating Azure managed Cassandra cluster following the documentation https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/managed-instance-apache-cassandra/create-cluster-portal It creates all 3 nodes ... java database azure cassandra asked 4 hours ago Sumeet Kumar Yadav 9,69155 gold badges3737 silver badges6767 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 6 views How to Create Synapse workspace in sandbox? I am new to azure portal want to try Azure Synapse workspace. I dont want 12month free subscription. I use sandbox subscription to try various features. But when i want to try Synapse workspace i get ... azure azure-web-app-service azure-synapse asked 5 hours ago Suraj S 61611 silver badge1616 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 10 views How to create SSL/TLS certificate on azure vm Linux (CentOS)? I am trying to build a website which is hosted on a Linux (CentOS) azure virtual machine. I purchased a domain from Godaddy and pointed this to my server IP adress. This has all worked fine so far. ... azure ssl centos godaddy-api asked 5 hours ago alexcc 1733 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 9 views Azure API Management - named value at API scope I am wondering whether it is possible to specify something like Named value but for each API separately? So if I have, say foo-API and bar-API I can specify for each a named value-like variable, eg my-... azure azure-api-management asked 6 hours ago michelson 43855 silver badges1919 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 13 views Sending large data files to Azure cloud virtual machine over TCP fails I have a virtual machine on Azure (server), running Linux (ubuntu 18.04), to which I am trying to send data of various sizes from my local machine (client) using a TCP socket programming, ranging from ... c++ azure tcp asked 6 hours ago Gokul 20711 silver badge1111 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 7 views Azure removing subscription creator from account Our former boss set up as PAYG sub on azure on his own azure account rather than the dev admin account. Hes no longer with us. If I remove him has owner will that interrupt or cause trouble with the ... azure asked 6 hours ago AndroidDev123 15611 silver badge1414 bronze badges -1 votes 0answers 4 views Unable to copy files from git repo I am trying to copy some dll files from git repo to any directory in azure devops but copy task is not picking the eaxct file size. It is copying the files but evrytime the size of each dll is 1 kb in ... azure azure-devops copy asked 6 hours ago divyansh bansal 1 0 votes 0answers 6 views Azure devops can not publish Apk android newbie here to azure DevOps trying to setup ci/cd for testing purposes on sample android app. I have following azure-pipelines.yml trigger: - master pool: default variables: - name: '... android azure azure-devops asked 6 hours ago Tornike Kachkachishvili 6133 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 8 views copy specific files from a container using wildcard filename in ADF pipeline I'm trying to copy specific files from a container in a Storage Account using an ADF pipeline. lets say the container has the following files aa_aaa_01_yyyymmdd.csv aa_abb_01_yyyymmdd.csv ... azure azure-data-factory-2 azure-data-factory-pipeline asked 7 hours ago D.R. 3377 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 12 views Access control list not in canonical form Whenever I try to merge code between branches in Azure Devops, I get that the access control list is not in canonical form, and cannot check in. c# azure uwp devops asked 7 hours ago Joe Miles 1 0 votes 0answers 6 views Using STM32 MCU to authenticate users on LDAP / Azure Active Directory -Feasability We are using a STM32 with a local GUI. We are planning on connecting this to the Azure IOT Hub. I was wondering what the feasibility would be to connect to a clients azure Active directory or LDAP ... azure azure-active-directory ldap azure-iot-hub azure-iot-sdk asked 7 hours ago Peter Sawicki 1 0 votes 0answers 7 views How can logs be accessed on an Azure Hosted Pipeline Agent? I want to upload a trimmed version of the current logs as a build artifact. How can I access the current machine's logs? I know I can access the logs of a build with the following API: https://docs.... azure azure-pipelines azure-pipelines-yaml asked 7 hours ago Jeppi 12566 bronze badges 0 votes 1answer 13 views Is there a way to use cURL commands in Azure Data Factory? So I am trying to create a Pipeline in Azure Data Factory and part of the process involves uploading a CSV to a temporary URL generated earlier in the Pipeline by an earlier REST API request. The API'... azure rest curl azure-data-factory asked 8 hours ago Derek 1733 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 10 views How to update Key Vault Secrets with function app default key and service bus connection string using PowerShell script I want to update the key vault secret values by getting the function app default key and service bus connection string using PowerShell/CLI script. So, can anyone please help me out on this issue. azure azure-functions azureservicebus azure-powershell azure-keyvault asked 8 hours ago Pradeep 4,0581010 gold badges4646 silver badges9090 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 8 views SendTemplateNotificationAsync not sending messages to Azure Notification Hub New to push notifications in Azure. I have a .NET Core API setup to send messages to a notification hub. [Route("api/[controller]")] [ApiController] public class ... android azure .net-core push-notification asked 8 hours ago WarHorse 1122 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 14 views SAML Bearer Assertion flow - Okta SAML Assertion to obtain Azure access token I am trying to us the SAML bearer assertion flow where I exchange a SAML assertion (generated by the Identity Provider - Okta for our current implementation) for an access token to Azure. Steps I have ... azure oauth-2.0 saml saml-2.0 okta asked 9 hours ago user17553709 111 bronze badge 0 votes 0answers 13 views How to update key-value in bindings of functions.json so let's say my out binding in my function.json is as follows "bindings": [ { [in data]... }, { "name": "funcMsg", "type": "... typescript azure azure-functions asked 9 hours ago mello 1111 bronze badge 0 votes 0answers 8 views How to mock Azure ServiceBus Receiver in Python MagicMock I'm using the Python Azure ServiceBus package and have the following snippet of code: # receiver.py import logging logger = logging.getLogger("test") def receive_message( ... python azure unit-testing pytest azureservicebus asked 10 hours ago tsaebeht 1,24044 gold badges1414 silver badges2828 bronze badges 0 votes 1answer 27 views Running Azure Functions with Cosmos DB locally - cannot find CosmosDBAttribute.ConnectionStringSetting The following error appears when trying to run the function: Unable to resolve the value for property 'CosmosDBAttribute.ConnectionStringSetting'. Make sure the setting exists and has a valid value. ... azure azure-functions azure-cosmosdb asked 10 hours ago Jesper 1 0 votes 0answers 7 views Enable Caching for Azure self hosted gateway i have a Arc-enabled Kubernetes cluster on my machine running a self hosted gateway from Microsoft. Now I want to enable Caching for it. So i created a redis leader like in: https://kubernetes.io/docs/... azure api azure-api-management asked 10 hours ago high5 3744 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 4 views Is there any option to connect to Azure Tables to store and retrieve data from Camel? We have a requirement to connect to Azure Table storage to store and retrieve the data . When i checked the documentation it supports only blob , Queue and File storage. One option i can see is using ... spring-boot azure apache-camel azure-storage azure-table-storage asked 10 hours ago abhi pm 2311 silver badge77 bronze badges 0 votes 1answer 12 views ADF web activity output parameter with special character I'm using ADF Web activity to submit a GET request to the external API. From the web activity (2) I'm getting the following output: Now, I want to assign a variable with value of the element that is ... azure azure-data-factory azure-data-factory-2 asked 11 hours ago kamilzet_ 1301414 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 26 views Obtain client secret id from API AZURE AD I have a use case of obtain the access token owner of Azure AD. I am generating the access token as follows: class MsalAuthentication(ServiceProvider): """Authentication with msal&... python azure azure-active-directory msal asked 11 hours ago Januka samaranyake 1,93911 gold badge2020 silver badges4747 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 11 views How to properly install azure-cli in Ubuntu 20.04 using homebrew? I am trying to install the azure-cli locally from a cloned repository. I successfully installed homebrew on my end. However, when I try to install the azure-cli, the error occurs below at the very end:... linux azure ubuntu homebrew azure-cli asked 11 hours ago E to the I 122 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 8 views Azure function with input date parameter to decide when to trigger I am working on Azure function and in this function I am providing the shared mailbox permission to user. unfortunility Add-MailboxPermission doesn't have date param to ensure that permission will be ... azure azure-functions asked 11 hours ago Mahajan344 2,32466 gold badges3434 silver badges7676 bronze badges 0 votes 1answer 10 views How to enable azure defender on storage accounts using Pulumi? I am trying my hand at IaC using Pulumi. I am able to create storage accounts but not enable Azure defender to them. How do I add Azure Defender to identify security threats on my storage accounts? azure azure-storage pulumi azure-defender asked 11 hours ago Subha_26 53622 silver badges88 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 8 views create 2 criteria in an alert that monitors multiple criteria in terraform (azure) I want to add another criteria but I get this error When the alert rule contains multiple criteria, the use of dimensions is limited to one value per dimension within each criterion resource "... azure terraform cloud devops infrastructure asked 11 hours ago Mr_Unchained 133 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 17 views Overcoming multiple headers are not allowed in HTTP request I'm working on an Azure based app in .Net c#. I have a function receiving a flag. when flag = false, I set the access condition to be AccessCondition.GenerateIfNotExistsCondition. but ANYWAY I want to ... c# .net azure http asked 12 hours ago Nia B 333 bronze badges 0 votes 1answer 19 views conditonal infrastructrue changes with Terraform I am trying to do some conditional changes in terraform. resource "azurerm_mssql_database" "war" { name = "${local.clSqlDatabaseName}-${var.... azure terraform terraform-provider-azure asked 13 hours ago Jason_Hough 24922 silver badges1212 bronze badges 0 votes 1answer 24 views Azure SQL Databases Admin Permissions We are looking at moving a number of applications from on prem SQL Servers upto Azure as a Paas offering, what would be the best way to grant the Database team access to these databases? They'll be ... sql-server database azure security rbac asked 13 hours ago Dave Carpenter 1122 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 16 views Need to create cosmos db pagination using CosmosClient in C# [closed] I need to create pagination in my api using CosmosClient in C#. We have lots of data in our cosmos database and we have to render this on UI react using pagination. Kindly suggest what login and code ... c# azure pagination azure-cosmosdb asked 13 hours ago Supriya Saraswat 1 0 votes 2answers 51 views Run program.cs file of console application in Azure Function? I have a console application which I want to convert to an Azure Function Timer Trigger app which will run every hour after some data processing and uploads are done. The data processing and uploads ... c# .net azure azure-functions asked 13 hours ago Aboudi Shukor 733 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 6 views Using 'Application.ReadWrite.OwnedBy' permissions Assuming there are two registered apps A & B. I want to use Microsoft Graph API permission: "Application.ReadWrite.OwnedBy" on App A to be able manage App B client secrets. I didn't find ... azure asked 13 hours ago Zefferno 5511 silver badge55 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 17 views How to use azure login using electron and angular I am trying to implement azure authentication in my electron application, I already created an angular app where all works fine so when the application loads it redirected to azure login page and if ... angular angularjs azure electron msal asked 14 hours ago nitesh sharma 1 0 votes 0answers 19 views Uploading files to sharepoint using NodeJs (pnpjs) I am trying to make a page, where I can upload local file to SharePoint. With the web app service from Azure, I manage to even prompt user to login with permission to sharepoint, and I want to use ... node.js azure azure-web-app-service pnp-js asked 14 hours ago Toshiko 111 bronze badge -1 votes 1answer 11 views Unhealthy backend health of server, under application gateway -> backend health status for the server is showing as unhealthy under the status it shows , unhealthy. I have configured the https setting and connected it with the health-probe for my server. Also configured the ports in NSG. Please let me know if anyone knows ... azure networking azure-devops azure-web-app-service azure-application-gateway asked 14 hours ago Atul Kumar 16911 gold badge22 silver badges99 bronze badges 0 votes 1answer 19 views How to create a Host key in Function App through Pulumi How can i create a host key in Function APp through Pulumi in C# ? I dont find any documentation in the Pulumi docs. Sample Host key in Function App through GUI c# azure azure-functions pulumi asked 14 hours ago Amaresh 111 bronze badge 0 votes 0answers 15 views Azure APIM support for multipart POST I am exploring the use of Azure APIM to construct and send a multi part request to an external party. The flow looks like this: Internal microservice -> POST (application/json) -> APIM -> ... azure post multipartform-data apim asked 14 hours ago Mahesh 33511 gold badge44 silver badges1818 bronze badges 0 votes 1answer 38 views Microsoft Graph - AddOwner API does not let me add an Application as group owner I'm using Microsoft Graph API Beta version to add an application as owner of a group (I verified this is possible via Azure Console). The API I found for my case is this one: https://docs.microsoft.... javascript python azure azure-active-directory microsoft-graph-api asked 14 hours ago Alessandro De Vitis 311 bronze badge 1 vote 1answer 38 views Powershell: Display a System.Object in Query Results having trouble including certain results in a query for AzureADSignInLogs. I have the following statement, but would like to include more results that are System.Objects. Get-AzureADAuditSignInLogs | ... azure powershell azure-active-directory asked 14 hours ago Secretsec 1322 bronze badges -1 votes 1answer 14 views Azure Application Insights integration with GraphQL API - HotChocolate Framework Is there any way to integrate Azure App Insights with Hotchoclate graphql framework? Currently, there are multiple ways of hacking this together. What is the best way to get everything into app ... .net azure azure-application-insights hotchocolate asked 15 hours ago Ricky G 2,99411 gold badge3535 silver badges5757 bronze badges 1 2 3 4 5 … 2239 Next The Overflow Blog The four engineering metrics that will streamline your software delivery Podcast 396: Does modern parenting require spyware? Featured on Meta Reducing the weight of our footer Two B or not two B - Farewell, BoltClock and Bhargav! Community input needed: The rules for collectives articles Related Tags c# × 14415 azure-functions × 7417 azure-web-app-service × 7299 azure-active-directory × 6656 azure-devops × 5365 azure-blob-storage × 4878 powershell × 4724 azure-storage × 4503 azure-sql-database × 4452 asp.net × 3618 python × 3448 .net × 3286 node.js × 3178 sql-server × 2980 azure-cosmosdb × 2744 asp.net-mvc × 2496 azure-data-factory × 2407 java × 2133 azure-resource-manager × 1961 asp.net-core × 1955 azureservicebus × 1912 azure-virtual-machine × 1841 azure-pipelines × 1830 azure-ad-b2c × 1703 sql × 1698 more related tags Hot Network Questions Lowest tech level for a civilization to widely produce fake meat How is the roof on this bridge town formed? What is the difference between /lib and /usr/lib and /var/lib? Why is TOTP two-factor digits behaviour different between Android and iOS implementations of Google Authenticator? Reference request: Generic k3 surface has Picard number 1 Valueing Coding over Physics, how to address this in applications? How to translate “Wir müssen wissen, wir werden wissen.” into Latin? What is the structure from which a sign is hung called? How can I generate multiple hashes in Mac terminal for multiple files? Why do I get through so many exhaust pipes? Can Heisenberg's uncertainty principle be used to prove the electron can't exist in the nucleus in this way? Identifying a tabletop book that has a panther with blue swirls on the cover Can/should I change GFI outlet to standard outlet Regression Models when the Covariates have many Zeros Hand-to-Hand Combat with Exoskeletons Some Questions About Sentence Clauses Can sound travel through light? How can you replace the last occurrence of a character in a string (text column)? What to look for in a first telescope for a child? Would it be possible to put wind turbines alongside runways that are driven by the exhaust of planes? How to deal with a PhD supervisor that acts like a company manager? What does it mean for Bill Gates to have an income of $0 dollars? What word would have been more appropriate than "income" is? Remote sensing of glaciers, season for data collection What is the difference between a waiting move and zugzwang? more hot questions Newest azure questions feed Subscribe to RSS Newest azure questions feed To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader. Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Help Mobile Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Service Contact Us Cookie Settings Cookie Policy Stack Exchange Network Technology Culture & recreation Life & arts Science Professional Business API Data Blog Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram site design / logo © 2021 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa. rev 2021.11.30.40849 Stack Overflow works best with JavaScript enabled Your privacy By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy. Accept all cookies Customize settings