Newest 'azure-defender' Questions - Stack Overflow
Newest 'azure-defender' Questions - Stack Overflow Stack Overflow About Products For Teams Stack Overflow Public questions & answers Stack Overflow for Teams Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers Jobs Programming & related technical career opportunities Talent Recruit tech talent & build your employer brand Advertising Reach developers & technologists worldwide About the company Loading… Log in Sign up current community Stack Overflow help chat Meta Stack Overflow your communities Sign up or log in to customize your list. more stack exchange communities company blog Home Public Questions Tags Users Collectives Explore Collectives Find a Job Jobs Companies Teams Stack Overflow for Teams – Collaborate and share knowledge with a private group. Create a free Team What is Teams? Teams Create free Team Collectives on Stack Overflow Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most. Learn more Teams Q&A for work Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search. Learn more Questions tagged [azure-defender] Ask Question The azure-defender tag has no usage guidance. Learn more… Top users Synonyms 10 questions Newest Active Bountied Unanswered More Bountied 0 Unanswered Frequent Votes Unanswered (my tags) Filter Filter by No answers No accepted answer Has bounty Sorted by Newest Recent activity Most votes Most frequent Bounty ending soon Tagged with My watched tags The following tags: Apply filter Cancel 0 votes 0answers 7 views Azure Defender for ACR - CI/CD scan results not shown I am scanning my docker image at build time with the github action Container Image Scan, but the CI/CD scan results do not show in Defender. You can see in this run that the scan was successful and ... azure github-actions azure-defender azure-security-center asked 4 hours ago bramvdk 1,02122 gold badges1414 silver badges2828 bronze badges 0 votes 1answer 10 views How to enable azure defender on storage accounts using Pulumi? I am trying my hand at IaC using Pulumi. I am able to create storage accounts but not enable Azure defender to them. How do I add Azure Defender to identify security threats on my storage accounts? azure azure-storage pulumi azure-defender asked 11 hours ago Subha_26 53622 silver badges88 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 27 views Azure Security Center-VM updates-Recommendation/Fixes I have a multiple subscriptions we have enabled Azure Security Center(Azure Defender) which is showing data for some of the VM as "System updates should be installed on your machines". ... azure azure-security azure-defender azure-security-center asked Nov 9 at 17:10 Madhur Asati 12333 silver badges1111 bronze badges 0 votes 1answer 28 views What are the required Roles to remediate Azure Defender and Security Center vulnerability assessment? What are the roles I need to request to remediate all vulnerability assessment recommendation in Azure? azure azure-defender asked Oct 25 at 9:30 R.G 122 bronze badges 1 vote 1answer 105 views Enable Azure Defender for all resource types using Azure Policies For security reasons I do have to enable Azure Defender in the ASC for all resource types. Since we do have a lot of different subscriptions within Azure and the number is increasing we do have to ... azure-policy azure-security azure-defender asked Aug 2 at 13:40 MOE 52922 silver badges1313 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 95 views Query on MCAS Unsanctioned application | Microsoft Live(IT services) Recently I received a security Incident on my Microsoft Cloud Application Security(MCAS) portal Data exfiltration to an app that is not sanctioned When I drilled down, I found Microsoft Live ... azure microsoft365 azure-sentinel azure-defender asked Jul 28 at 7:48 Deep 3511 gold badge33 silver badges88 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 89 views WDAC policy is not blocking the path and no event is triggered I Created WDAC policy by using these commands. to block the execution of D:\AnyDesk\anydesk.exe $Rule = New-CIPolicyRule -FilePathRule 'D:\AnyDesk*' -deny New-CIPolicy -UserPEs -MultiplePolicyFormat -... windows powershell intune windows-defender azure-defender asked Jun 6 at 15:07 Nafiis Mushtaq 10377 bronze badges 0 votes 1answer 120 views Potential malware uploaded to a storage account vs Potential malware uploaded to a storage blob container According to this guide, the name for the alert from Azure Defender that is created when a malicious file is uploaded to a blob container is "Potential malware uploaded to a storage account".... azure azure-defender azure-security-center azure-workflow-automation asked Jun 3 at 1:38 David Klempfner 7,0721515 gold badges5353 silver badges110110 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 160 views Triggering a logic app via workflow automation and Azure Security Center alert I've been following this guide. I have Azure Defender running which will produce an alert when a malicious file is uploaded to blob storage. I've set up a workflow to trigger my logic app: This is my ... azure azure-logic-apps azure-security azure-defender azure-security-center asked Jun 3 at 1:14 David Klempfner 7,0721515 gold badges5353 silver badges110110 bronze badges 0 votes 1answer 54 views How to determine which blobs Azure Defender will work for? I was reading https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/azure-security-center/how-to-respond-to-potential-malware-uploaded-to-azure-storage/ba-p/1452005 and was confused by: In many cases the stream ... azure azure-security azure-defender asked Jun 3 at 0:10 David Klempfner 7,0721515 gold badges5353 silver badges110110 bronze badges The Overflow Blog The four engineering metrics that will streamline your software delivery Podcast 396: Does modern parenting require spyware? Featured on Meta Reducing the weight of our footer Two B or not two B - Farewell, BoltClock and Bhargav! Community input needed: The rules for collectives articles Related Tags azure × 8 azure-security × 4 azure-security-center × 4 windows × 1 powershell × 1 azure-storage × 1 github-actions × 1 azure-logic-apps × 1 azure-policy × 1 intune × 1 pulumi × 1 windows-defender × 1 microsoft365 × 1 azure-sentinel × 1 azure-workflow-automation × 1 more related tags Hot Network Questions How to correctly use lists inside Compile How annoying are mouse clicks on an air plane Can sound travel through light? Why can the UK's Competition and Markets Authority tell Facebook to sell Giphy? What is the most unique type of philosophy someone can naturally develop? Why doesn't common investment advice include the idea of pulling out of the market during downturns? Can C++ deduce argument type from default value? Instance on Points Geometry Node to skip every other instance + offset Does it look weird when all my publications are all in the stage of "submitted"? Would it be possible to put wind turbines alongside runways that are driven by the exhaust of planes? How to justify burning people for energy? Why was Pepsi free in 1985? Meaning of 'white mask on my otherwise tan face' What to look for in a first telescope for a child? What is the structure from which a sign is hung called? Can I use a 2x10 rear derailleur with 3 front rings? Why is Makkari deaf and mute? How to detect power cut remotely? Remove matching lines from all files Geometric conditional Probability Regression Models when the Covariates have many Zeros Can I manually reset Cellular network configuration without losing WiFi passwords? Split list by sequential entries Can I initialize only one qubit in a 4-qubit circuit? more hot questions Newest azure-defender questions feed Subscribe to RSS Newest azure-defender questions feed To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader. Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Help Mobile Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Service Contact Us Cookie Settings Cookie Policy Stack Exchange Network Technology Culture & recreation Life & arts Science Professional Business API Data Blog Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram site design / logo © 2021 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa. rev 2021.11.30.40849 Stack Overflow works best with JavaScript enabled Your privacy By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy. Accept all cookies Customize settings