java - Android 12 and material you detection - Stack Overflow
java - Android 12 and material you detection - Stack Overflow Stack Overflow About Products For Teams Stack Overflow Public questions & answers Stack Overflow for Teams Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers Jobs Programming & related technical career opportunities Talent Recruit tech talent & build your employer brand Advertising Reach developers & technologists worldwide About the company Loading… Log in Sign up current community Stack Overflow help chat Meta Stack Overflow your communities Sign up or log in to customize your list. more stack exchange communities company blog Home Public Questions Tags Users Collectives Explore Collectives Find a Job Jobs Companies Teams Stack Overflow for Teams – Collaborate and share knowledge with a private group. Create a free Team What is Teams? Teams Create free Team Collectives on Stack Overflow Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most. Learn more Teams Q&A for work Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search. Learn more Android 12 and material you detection Ask Question Asked today Active today Viewed 10 times 0 I'm trying to update my theme with the new Material You, it's working when I select a color in Android parameter (Screenshot red part) but when I disable it (blue part) I've got the default value color set in the SDK xml. Example with: @android:color/system_accent1_0 I want know how to check when user select it or not (red or blue part in screenshot), this way i will use another theme when disable. My 2nd question is about the icon of the application, when i put blank color in background of ic_launcher.xml it works but not with another color, do you know why ? Thanks java android material-components-android Share Follow asked 4 hours ago CyrilleCyrille 28122 silver badges1010 bronze badges Add a comment | 0 Active Oldest Votes Know someone who can answer? Share a link to this question via email, Twitter, or Facebook. Your Answer Thanks for contributing an answer to Stack Overflow! Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research! But avoid … Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers. Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience. To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers. Draft saved Draft discarded Sign up or log in Sign up using Google Sign up using Facebook Sign up using Email and Password Submit Post as a guest Name Email Required, but never shown Post as a guest Name Email Required, but never shown Post Your Answer Discard By clicking “Post Your Answer”, you agree to our terms of service, privacy policy and cookie policy Browse other questions tagged java android material-components-android or ask your own question. The Overflow Blog The four engineering metrics that will streamline your software delivery Podcast 396: Does modern parenting require spyware? Featured on Meta Reducing the weight of our footer Two B or not two B - Farewell, BoltClock and Bhargav! Community input needed: The rules for collectives articles Related 4081 What are the differences between a HashMap and a Hashtable in Java? 3236 What is a serialVersionUID and why should I use it? 1147 Fling gesture detection on grid layout 4137 How do you close/hide the Android soft keyboard programmatically? 3060 How to stop EditText from gaining focus at Activity startup in Android 6138 What is the difference between "px", "dip", "dp" and "sp"? 370 Animate change of view background color on Android 2943 Is there a unique Android device ID? 2138 What is 'Context' on Android? 3845 Proper use cases for Android UserManager.isUserAGoat()? Hot Network Questions Can sound travel through light? What is the simplest way to invert a signal with just one jumper? Why was Pepsi free in 1985? What is the difference between a waiting move and zugzwang? How to detect power cut remotely? Ways to send data with CRC validation How can you replace the last occurrence of a character in a string (text column)? Regression Models when the Covariates have many Zeros How can I patch a hole on the underside of an inner tube? DC-DC Converter output: 6.21 V instead of 5.5 V Reuse picture for visa (US & EU) What is the structure from which a sign is hung called? Find shortest path between two vertices that uses at most one negative edge Which components can be labelled as "BD" on a printed circuit board? How to deal with a PhD supervisor that acts like a company manager? Simulating solar system with Newtons law Was the Harcourt COVID-19 isolate paper ever published? Between you and me Lowest tech level for a civilization to widely produce fake meat Can Heisenberg's uncertainty principle be used to prove the electron can't exist in the nucleus in this way? What is the noun to express the state of a simple person? Remote sensing of glaciers, season for data collection Which of the Eternals were based on mythological characters? Skim excess power from a resonant circuit without draining it? more hot questions Question feed Subscribe to RSS Question feed To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader. lang-java Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Help Mobile Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Service Contact Us Cookie Settings Cookie Policy Stack Exchange Network Technology Culture & recreation Life & arts Science Professional Business API Data Blog Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram site design / logo © 2021 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa. rev 2021.11.30.40849 Stack Overflow works best with JavaScript enabled Your privacy By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy. Accept all cookies Customize settings