Stack Overflow company page - learn about stack overflow
Stack Overflow company page - learn about stack overflow Home Public Questions Tags Users Collectives Explore Collectives Find a Job Jobs Companies Teams Stack Overflow for Teams – Collaborate and share knowledge with a private group. Create a free Team What is Teams? Teams Create free Team Collectives on Stack Overflow Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most. Learn more Teams Q&A for work Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search. Learn more Company Blog Newsletter Podcast Teams Talent Advertising Collectives For Developers About Leadership Careers Open positions Press Research Contact us New here? Take a tour Who we are Empowering the world to develop technology through collective knowledge. Our public platform serves 100 million people every month, making it one of the 50 most popular websites in the world. Our asynchronous knowledge management and collaboration offering Stack Overflow for Teams, is transforming how people work. 100+ million Monthly visitors to our network 21+ Million Questions asked to-date 13.6 seconds Average time between new questions 50.6+ Billion Times a developer got help 10,000+ Customer companies for all products Founded in 2008, Stack Overflow’s public platform is used by nearly everyone who codes to learn, share their knowledge, collaborate, and build their careers. Our products and tools help developers and technologists in life and at work. These products include Stack Overflow for Teams, Stack Overflow Advertising, and Stack Overflow for Talent and Jobs. Stack Overflow for Teams, our core SaaS collaboration product, is helping thousands of companies around the world make the transition to remote work, address business continuity challenges, and undergo digital transformation. Whether it’s on Stack Overflow or within Stack Overflow for Teams, community is at the center of all that we do. Webby Award “The Best of the Internet” 2021 Stratus Award Cloud Collaboration 2020 G2 Awards We’re a seasoned winner 2019-2021 RemoteTech Awards Developer Collaboration Platform 2021 The SaaS Awards Best SaaS for Productivity 2021 APPEALIE SaaS Awards Collaboration + Productivity 2021 Our products Our Public Platform Where developers and technologists go to gain and share knowledge. Participate Where developers and technologists share private knowledge with coworkers. Learn more Where companies build their employer brand to attract top tech talent. Learn more Where companies reach the world’s largest audience of developers and technologists. Learn more Connecting communities with the specific technologies they use the most. Learn more Used by thousands of organizations around the globe Our core values Adopt a customer-first mindset Authentically serve our customers by empowering, listening and collaborating with our fellow Stackers. Be flexible and inclusive We do our best work when a diverse group of people collaborate in an environment of respect and trust. Create space for different voices to be heard, and allow flexibility in how people work. Be transparent Communicate openly and honestly, both inside and outside the company. Encourage transparency from others by being empathetic, reliable, and acting with integrity. Empower people to deliver outstanding results Give people space to get their job done, support them when they need it, and practice blameless accountability. Keep community at our center Community is at the heart of everything we do. Nurture healthy communities where everyone is encouraged to learn and give back. Learn, share, grow Adopt a Growth Mindset. Be curious and eager to learn. Aim for ethical, sustainable, long-term growth, both personally and in the company. Where we work We’re proud to be a remote first company working across many timezones, with offices in New York, London, Austin and Munich * Current job openings Contact us HQ New York Stack Exchange Inc. 110 William Street 28th Floor New York, NY 10038 * All employees are currently working fully remote. Check out our FAQ about how Stack Overflow works. Get help To share feedback about our platform, please visit our meta community. Visit Meta Looking for help with Stack Overflow for Teams? Teams help Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Help Mobile Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Service Contact Us Cookie Settings Cookie Policy Stack Exchange Network Technology Culture & recreation Life & arts Science Professional Business API Data Blog Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram site design / logo © 2021 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa. rev 2021.11.30.40849 Stack Overflow works best with JavaScript enabled Your privacy By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy. Accept all cookies Customize settings