c# - how to send keys with specific instruction - Stack Overflow
c# - how to send keys with specific instruction - Stack Overflow Stack Overflow About Products For Teams Stack Overflow Public questions & answers Stack Overflow for Teams Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers Jobs Programming & related technical career opportunities Talent Recruit tech talent & build your employer brand Advertising Reach developers & technologists worldwide About the company Loading… Log in Sign up current community Stack Overflow help chat Meta Stack Overflow your communities Sign up or log in to customize your list. more stack exchange communities company blog Home Public Questions Tags Users Collectives Explore Collectives Find a Job Jobs Companies Teams Stack Overflow for Teams – Collaborate and share knowledge with a private group. Create a free Team What is Teams? Teams Create free Team Collectives on Stack Overflow Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most. Learn more Teams Q&A for work Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search. Learn more how to send keys with specific instruction Ask Question Asked today Active today Viewed 26 times 0 Hello everyone I am trying to sendkeys to a webpage using selenium and c# , I have a list of names inside a textbox and I want to be able to send one at a time, and after it has done it once it would restart the whole process over like a loop depending on the amount of names I provide if I place 10 names the process would run 10 times I guess you can do this by creating a different function instead of placing it in this and making it more complex. This is how I have done it for now; var names = new HashSet<string>()
                {
                    namez
                };
            var namez = emails.Text.Split();

            var namesElement = driver.FindElement(By.ClassName("quantumWizTextinputPapertextareaInput"));

            foreach (string name in names)
                
            {
                namesElement.SendKeys(names.[namez]);
            }
 how would I send keys with special instructions? c# selenium sendkeys Share Follow asked 6 hours ago golden leogolden leo 133 bronze badges Add a comment | 0 Active Oldest Votes Know someone who can answer? Share a link to this question via email, Twitter, or Facebook. Your Answer Thanks for contributing an answer to Stack Overflow! Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research! But avoid … Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers. Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience. To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers. Draft saved Draft discarded Sign up or log in Sign up using Google Sign up using Facebook Sign up using Email and Password Submit Post as a guest Name Email Required, but never shown Post as a guest Name Email Required, but never shown Post Your Answer Discard By clicking “Post Your Answer”, you agree to our terms of service, privacy policy and cookie policy Browse other questions tagged c# selenium sendkeys or ask your own question. The Overflow Blog The four engineering metrics that will streamline your software delivery Podcast 396: Does modern parenting require spyware? Featured on Meta Reducing the weight of our footer Two B or not two B - Farewell, BoltClock and Bhargav! Community input needed: The rules for collectives articles Linked 0 how to make a loop with send sendkeys in C# and Selenium Related 2068 How do I calculate someone's age based on a DateTime type birthday? 3572 How can I cast int to enum? 4113 How to enumerate an enum 2935 How to iterate over a dictionary? 2046 How do I create an Excel (.XLS and .XLSX) file in C# without installing Microsoft Office? 2298 How do I get a consistent byte representation of strings in C# without manually specifying an encoding? 2179 How do I generate a random int number? 1873 What is a NullReferenceException, and how do I fix it? Hot Network Questions How to correctly use lists inside Compile Skim excess power from a resonant circuit without draining it? How can I generate multiple hashes in Mac terminal for multiple files? Name of a live-action Saturday morning show from the '70s, involving bigfoot/caveman? Array of Object to the single Object Can/should I change GFI outlet to standard outlet Is it a good idea to respond at all if a person I never heard of is asking for a reference letter? DC-DC Converter output: 6.21 V instead of 5.5 V The meaning of the word "in" in Romans 5:3 How is the roof on this bridge town formed? Can a US physician prescribe meds to non-US residents? All distances different on a chessboard Can Heisenberg's uncertainty principle be used to prove the electron can't exist in the nucleus in this way? What size are these mosaics of Justinian and Theodora? Converting polygon to list of coordinates with shapely Lowest tech level for a civilization to widely produce fake meat Which of the Eternals were based on mythological characters? Can sound travel through light? TERM system environment variable not set - Windows 10 Split list by sequential entries Instance on Points Geometry Node to skip every other instance + offset What sign language does Makkari use? QGIS: label only if more than 1 polygon visible in map extent? Wrong inaugural move in game 2 of Carlsen - Nepomniachtchi more hot questions Question feed Subscribe to RSS Question feed To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader. lang-cs Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Help Mobile Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Service Contact Us Cookie Settings Cookie Policy Stack Exchange Network Technology Culture & recreation Life & arts Science Professional Business API Data Blog Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram site design / logo © 2021 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa. rev 2021.11.30.40849 Stack Overflow works best with JavaScript enabled Your privacy By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy. Accept all cookies Customize settings