Newest 'selenium' Questions - Stack Overflow
Newest 'selenium' Questions - Stack Overflow Stack Overflow About Products For Teams Stack Overflow Public questions & answers Stack Overflow for Teams Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers Jobs Programming & related technical career opportunities Talent Recruit tech talent & build your employer brand Advertising Reach developers & technologists worldwide About the company Loading… Log in Sign up current community Stack Overflow help chat Meta Stack Overflow your communities Sign up or log in to customize your list. more stack exchange communities company blog Home Public Questions Tags Users Collectives Explore Collectives Find a Job Jobs Companies Teams Stack Overflow for Teams – Collaborate and share knowledge with a private group. Create a free Team What is Teams? Teams Create free Team Collectives on Stack Overflow Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most. Learn more Teams Q&A for work Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search. Learn more Questions tagged [selenium] Ask Question Selenium is a popular open-source tool for automating web browsers. When using this tag, also include other tags for the specific components you are using, e.g. selenium-webdriver for the language bindings, selenium-ide, selenium-grid, etc. Learn more… Top users Synonyms selenium jobs 91,852 questions Newest Active Bountied 2 Unanswered More Bountied 2 Unanswered Frequent Votes Unanswered (my tags) Filter Filter by No answers No accepted answer Has bounty Sorted by Newest Recent activity Most votes Most frequent Bounty ending soon Tagged with My watched tags The following tags: Apply filter Cancel 0 votes 0answers 6 views "ImportError: No module named selenium" on VSCode I'm making a project with selenium, and the following error is disturbing me. I'm using VSCode with Code Runner, and my OS is Ubuntu 20.04: [Running] python -u "/home/albomonco/Desktop/forca.py&... python selenium asked 7 mins ago Enzo Albo 1 0 votes 0answers 5 views How to click on the shadowbox in selenium-python? I am trying to create an automation program. I want to click on the "Accept Cookies" shadowbox on the given website. Here's how I have tried to achieve this: driver = webdriver.Chrome('... python selenium asked 18 mins ago Anonymous 1 1 vote 0answers 8 views Is there a better way to simulate mouse movement in selenium with python? Websites with good security are detecting the clicking with just driver.find_element(By.XPATH, button).click(). Is there a way to simulate my mouse movement like a real human? I need to move around ... python selenium asked 1 hour ago codex21 2122 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 7 views How to extract and print the final numbers using Selenium ChromeDriver and MutationObserver I'm trying to extract and print the final numbers as innerText (not from data-to attribute) within the website tulsaspca: I've implemented a MutationObserver which is a requirement to observe the DOM ... selenium google-chrome selenium-webdriver selenium-chromedriver mutation-observers asked 2 hours ago DebanjanB 130k3030 gold badges193193 silver badges251251 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 11 views How to find all input elements with specific text on webpage with selenium Basically what I am trying to do is find all of the input elements on a website containing a specific word and try to input text there. For example this website https://www.missyempire.com/customer/... python selenium selenium-webdriver selenium-chromedriver webautomation asked 2 hours ago Trickster 1 0 votes 0answers 12 views how to make a loop with send sendkeys in C# and Selenium [duplicate] I am trying to cut down time time I use to do simple tasks at work so I started using selenium and C#, am stuck at a point in which I have various information to send to a text field from a textbox (... c# selenium selenium-webdriver sendkeys asked 4 hours ago golden leo 133 bronze badges 0 votes 1answer 18 views selenium query: javascript equivalent find.element (by.xclass) I have to find in an html page a id tag which is embedded in a class tag. driver.find_element(By.XPATH, "//div[@class='Content warning']/p").get_attribute("id")enter image ... javascript selenium automation asked 4 hours ago olivier 2122 bronze badges 1 vote 2answers 23 views Python selenium doesn't click on on the cookie accept button I want to access a website but I just can't get the cookie pop up to go away. The website itself opens but I can't seem to grab the accept button for the cookie. Here is my code thus far: #set path, ... python selenium cookies css-selectors webdriverwait asked 5 hours ago liluen 1344 bronze badges -1 votes 2answers 29 views Selenium: How to get text out of a div I want to get a text which is inside a div. I tried to find help from other questions, but most of them say .getText() which doesnt exist anymore. This is the inspect: Im using a chrome extension ... java selenium selenium-webdriver selenium-chromedriver asked 5 hours ago Beardy 10588 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 6 views Master thoughts cucumber reports are not generated? What is the expected configuration for generating the cucumber reports? ( version 7.0.0 ) Am trying to generate with the latest cucumber version local reports, is there any conflict between versions? ... selenium cucumber cucumber-jvm cucumber-java asked 5 hours ago Hari 2955 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 26 views how to send keys with specific instruction Hello everyone I am trying to sendkeys to a webpage using selenium and c# , I have a list of names inside a textbox and I want to be able to send one at a time, and after it has done it once it ... c# selenium sendkeys asked 6 hours ago golden leo 133 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 10 views Running UI tests on different hosts using the same code So looking for some design suggestions here.. Our application is primarily a windows WPF app but recently we have made use of the Microsoft Uno platform to also run a Web version of our app. The ... c# selenium ui-automation winappdriver asked 6 hours ago Tree55Topz 1322 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 16 views Selenium IDE - variable string has apostrophe and not able to be used I've been using the Selenium IDE browser extension and can't seem to figure out how to remove an apostrophe from a string so that I can use it in an execute script command. It looks like there was a ... selenium selenium-ide asked 6 hours ago WingZero29 111 bronze badge 0 votes 0answers 9 views TestNG not running tests in parallel I am trying to run a test class which contains multiple tests in itself, across 3 browsers in parallel. However the tests are run sequentially as I can see from the log outputs. It will first run ... selenium testng selenium-grid testng.xml testng-annotation-test asked 7 hours ago bway 1544 bronze badges 0 votes 1answer 11 views Execute Code when all Test Scripts are executed in C# Visual Studio I need to execute some set of code once all the Test Scripts have been completed executed (Sequentially/ Parallelly)( It should be like ‘After Suite’ in JAVA). I came across annotation [SetupFixture] ... c# visual-studio selenium nunit nunit-3.0 asked 7 hours ago suman kundu 1 0 votes 1answer 28 views Is there a way to contain web elements with different attributes in the same variable? [duplicate] This isn't absolutely necessary but it would make the code a lot shorter and presumably quicker. I would like to perform, using Selenium, the same actions on web elements elements that normally belong ... python selenium selenium-chromedriver asked 7 hours ago double_wizz 4166 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 13 views Selenium popup visual studio code bug Got an issue with this code: import time driver = webdriver.Chrome(executable_path="E:\Hack\chromedriver_win32\chromedriver.exe") driver.get("http://challenge01.root-me.org/web-client/... python visual-studio selenium visual-studio-code module asked 7 hours ago Mames Pother 1111 bronze badge 0 votes 0answers 8 views How to concat files just downloaded with Selenium? Here's my code : from selenium import webdriver from selenium.webdriver.support.select import Select from selenium.webdriver.support.ui import WebDriverWait from selenium.webdriver.common.by ... python python-3.x selenium concatenation xlsx asked 8 hours ago LaurieFalcon 6166 bronze badges -1 votes 1answer 32 views how to click in this element by xpath [closed] I have an HTML code like this and need to click in the button <div aria-label="??????? ??????" class="oajrlxb2 g5ia77u1 qu0x051f esr5mh6w e9989ue4 r7d6kgcz rq0escxv nhd2j8a9 pq6dq46d ... python python-3.x selenium selenium-webdriver asked 8 hours ago Jhon tech 322 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 17 views xpath value keeps changing in selenium python i used relative xpath instead of absolute xpath but it still changes (selenium python) exp: //[@id="productsContainer"]/div/table/tbody/tr2/td[9]/button //[@id="productsContainer"]/... python html selenium xpath asked 8 hours ago user17553755 1 -1 votes 0answers 13 views Google Chrome run by Selenium keeps taking away focus on itself Im parsing web pages using selenium and Chrome on MacOS. I wrote code that instead of opening new Chrome window every time opens a new tab and closes the old one inside the same browser window. I'd ... python macos selenium google-chrome asked 9 hours ago CMDR_Mark 111 bronze badge 0 votes 0answers 15 views Selenium Explicit Waits not waiting at all I am trying to make Selenium wait until a loader div is invisible. These are my imports: from selenium import webdriver from selenium.webdriver.common.by import By from selenium.webdriver.common.keys ... python selenium selenium-edgedriver asked 9 hours ago mtedu 1955 bronze badges 2 votes 2answers 36 views Empty CSV when writing selenium data I'm making my first experience with Selenium and doing a few tutorials on a well-known video platform. It works quite reliable most of the time. However, I had a problem with a few pages that the CSV ... python selenium csv selenium-chromedriver asked 10 hours ago Forelli 2322 bronze badges 0 votes 2answers 38 views Why doesn't my XPath expression return any results? I have the following html: <html> <body> <table> <tr> <tr> <tr> <tr> <tr> <td>Color Digest </td> ... selenium selenium-webdriver xpath automation asked 10 hours ago Eitanos30 1,14577 silver badges1111 bronze badges -1 votes 0answers 26 views Getting data for test [closed] I have a code which is filling my email field with an email retrieved from test data json file. But I also want to use this method to fill email with a value not from json file. Is there any way to ... python json selenium asked 10 hours ago Anush Karapetyan 1 0 votes 0answers 10 views Sign in to Google in selenium python environment using Chrome Driver to get the same search/shop results [duplicate] Hi I want to get the same search results in the selenium python Chrome Browser as I get them in my normal Chrome Browser when I am signed in. Chrome does not allow me to login when I am using selenium.... python selenium google-chrome asked 10 hours ago FunHelp 722 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 37 views How to handle wait processing other than time.sleep I'm trying to automate web operations using Selenium, but I'm having trouble getting it to wait for anything other than time.sleep. I tried to wait using WebDriverWait as shown in the code below: ... python selenium asked 10 hours ago katahik 11177 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 13 views Selenium element not interactable with same id I have a base page class like this public class BasePage{ @FindBy(id = "select2-ccnl-container") protected WebElement ccnlSelect; public void clickSettingCcnl(){ ... java selenium testing css-selectors asked 10 hours ago Frenk 5111 silver badge77 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 11 views Different maven-cucumber-reporting for different test environments I have implemented maven-cucumber-reporting for UAT environment. The tests are run through Github actions CI and the reports are generated and published in a Github page. Currently with the maven-... selenium maven automation cucumber maven-surefire-plugin asked 12 hours ago Ajish 122 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 16 views Selenium Webdriver not getting next page in loop after current page reload in a function This code runs in Chrome on pages in Adobe Experience Manager CMS, and I can't share the urls unfortunately. goal is to go through multiple pages, delete a date in a component, then set that date in ... python selenium selenium-chromedriver asked 12 hours ago xdriver1 122 bronze badges 1 vote 2answers 32 views Clicking on a check box using selenium - Python I am trying to click on a check box. Below is the HTML Code <div class="mb-1 p-3 termsCheck"> <input class="form-check-input float-end" type="checkbox&... python selenium web-scraping checkbox asked 13 hours ago raptorzee 12311 silver badge88 bronze badges 1 vote 1answer 26 views Python: How to add Firefox extensions in Selenium 4 The last version I used of Selenium was 3.141.0. I am now transitioning to Selenium 4, and I am trying to figure out how to add extensions for Firefox, in Python 3. Previously, something like this ... python selenium selenium-webdriver selenium-firefoxdriver selenium4 asked 13 hours ago P A N 4,6161212 gold badges4040 silver badges8585 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 23 views Python Selenium download PDF files without any *.pdf ending in the url I want to make a web scraper which can download a pdf file. The tricky part is, the url does not end with *.pdf. It stays the same as the request url. Another problem is, I cannot figure out the ... python selenium asked 13 hours ago XaniXxable 4911 silver badge66 bronze badges 1 vote 1answer 16 views Why do I sometimes get the warning "Expected 'collections.Iterable', got 'WebElement' instead"? Using Selenium's find_element(By.XPATH, "//tag[@class='classname']", when I try to iterate over elements of certain classes, I sometimes get this warning by Pycharm : "Expected '... python selenium selenium-chromedriver asked 14 hours ago double_wizz 4166 bronze badges 0 votes 2answers 29 views AttributeError: move_to requires a WebElement error calling move_to_element(by_locator) using Selenium and Python I'm using ActionChains in pytest to scroll till an element but getting error "move_to requires a WebElement". I have used same code in unittest and it worked fine but it doesn't in pytest. ... python selenium selenium-webdriver action asked 14 hours ago Naveed Ahmad 1 0 votes 1answer 17 views Web automation with Selenium Python CSV automation script I am currently trying to do a CSV to form submit script. My code currently runs however I need a more efficient memory management way in place, instead of new windows I want one instance of Chrome to ... python forms selenium selenium-webdriver automation asked 15 hours ago RawalD 1011010 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 35 views Chrome Driver Maven Error "Could not start a new session" I am trying to run a selenium-based java test application on Intellij using maven. The problem is that if I run the test in IntelliJ the chrome driver starts and run successfully whereas if I Exeecute ... java selenium maven intellij-idea asked 15 hours ago Azeem Baloch 133 bronze badges 1 vote 1answer 36 views Selecting an item from a dropdown list using selenium and request- python I am trying to fill a form up. here is the html for the drop down list <div class="mb-3"> <label for="cityId" class="form-label FormLabelsEn">City&... python forms selenium web-scraping drop-down-menu asked 17 hours ago raptorzee 12311 silver badge88 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 17 views Webscrape data from webpage to excel in loop i want to get webscraping data to excel sheet in column B below is the code which i have tried but i have no ideal how to get this data to excel. Below is the code which i am using. browser = ... python selenium selenium-webdriver asked 18 hours ago Rajesh Shishodia 1744 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 12 views RDP disconnect and NOT locking session Is there a way for disconnect RDP and NOT locking session? I'm running an automated scripts using Selenium and can't have the Session being Locked after closing RDP Note that I don't have the option ... selenium rdp asked 19 hours ago Shmulik b 1922 bronze badges 1 vote 0answers 21 views python selenium set a limit time to page loading and continue next step in force [duplicate] I've written a selenium program to search specific keywords using google. But I found that it always waits for the page to load, sometimes it waits too long, and the page seems to be stuck there. Then ... python selenium driver asked 21 hours ago sampan0423 8366 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 13 views Can't run Firefox instance when adding FirefoxProfile to FirefoxOptions against SeleniumGrid NOTE - I am running SeleniumGrid 4.1.0 in Hub-Node mode with Hub and Node running on the same machine. When I try to run Firefox (ver - 94.0.2) instance using following code nothing happens and Hub ... c# selenium selenium-grid asked 21 hours ago H.D. 40544 silver badges1919 bronze badges 0 votes 4answers 28 views How to click a Span element? for some reason the following xpath will not click when i use the click command in selenium ide.The link iam trying to click is called devices. How can i get this to click? xpath=//div[2]/section/nav/... html selenium selenium-ide asked 22 hours ago Space Tech 2144 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 14 views how to upload file in dropzone using python code automatically I am trying to write a code to submit a webform with python code. I am using selenium which is a great library. It works well with normal elements. For dropzones, I am unable to find a solution. ... python selenium file-upload automation dropzone asked 22 hours ago Muhammad Gulfam 3966 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 26 views Finding elements with Class Name instead of xPath in lxml - Python - Selenium I'm currently trying to scrape a page and pull some information, potentially in bulk, and i've been able to do so easily for the first page. However, when trying to simply add new links into the ... python html selenium selenium-webdriver python-requests asked yesterday Qwerted 1 0 votes 2answers 36 views How do I send a random line from one file? How do I send a random line from one file? with open('names.txt') as f: lines = f.readlines() for line in lines: self.driver.... python selenium asked yesterday Jhon tech 322 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 19 views Export multiple scraped items to a csv file in selenium Ok so i have this code to scrape this link.... https://datacentersupport.lenovo.com/gb/en/products/storage/lenovo-storage/s3200/70l8/parts/display/compatible. The code I have scrapes all the details ... python pandas selenium selenium-webdriver asked yesterday Reggie18 2355 bronze badges -1 votes 0answers 18 views Pyth,Selenium,chrome driver driverWhen, instagram scraping, I run the code without putting it in the foreground, it works fine, but in background no When I run the code without putting it in the foreground, it works fine, but when I put it in the background it throws an error in the second instragram alert chrome_options = Options() chrome_options.... python selenium web-scraping selenium-chromedriver instagram asked yesterday Benja 11 1 vote 1answer 48 views Make Selenium wait until text is available I'm using Selenium to scrape some data from this website: https://www.boerse-frankfurt.de/en/etf/ishares-core-s-p-500-ucits-etf-usd-acc My script works but I need to impose a 5 seconds wait time to be ... python selenium selenium-webdriver web-scraping selenium-chromedriver asked yesterday younggotti 36599 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 14 views Nodejs Selenium how to get payload and response? When I click on the button (programmatically, of course),selenium sends a post request to url. I need to get access to payload and response from code, how can I do that? await this.driver.findElement(... node.js selenium selenium-webdriver asked yesterday DaadyDeer 2555 bronze badges 1 2 3 4 5 … 1838 Next The Overflow Blog The four engineering metrics that will streamline your software delivery Podcast 396: Does modern parenting require spyware? Featured on Meta Reducing the weight of our footer Two B or not two B - Farewell, BoltClock and Bhargav! Community input needed: The rules for collectives articles Related Tags python × 30129 selenium-webdriver × 27104 java × 20733 webdriver × 8538 selenium-chromedriver × 8346 xpath × 6916 c# × 6595 javascript × 6057 web-scraping × 5195 python-3.x × 4729 html × 3623 automation × 3440 google-chrome × 3153 firefox × 3029 testing × 2459 testng × 2431 automated-tests × 2232 css-selectors × 1810 beautifulsoup × 1756 protractor × 1752 webdriverwait × 1668 cucumber × 1537 appium × 1480 ruby × 1454 selenium-ide × 1345 more related tags Hot Network Questions Does it look weird when all my publications are all in the stage of "submitted"? Skim excess power from a resonant circuit without draining it? Some Questions About Sentence Clauses Why is TOTP two-factor digits behaviour different between Android and iOS implementations of Google Authenticator? Regression Models when the Covariates have many Zeros Book or story where humans are genetically engineered to act as AI? Are database unique indexes a mask on bad scripting? Split list by sequential entries Can Heisenberg's uncertainty principle be used to prove the electron can't exist in the nucleus in this way? What is the difference between a waiting move and zugzwang? VLC won't work on Ubuntu 20.04.3 LTS Which components can be labelled as "BD" on a printed circuit board? synonym for blindly, without worry Hand-to-Hand Combat with Exoskeletons How to deal with a PhD supervisor that acts like a company manager? Why can the UK's Competition and Markets Authority tell Facebook to sell Giphy? Can C++ deduce argument type from default value? Without Haste, what Efficiency level does a Pickaxe need to insta-mine Stone? What sign language does Makkari use? Why does 'find' command on Alpine seem to require escaping '?' but not on Ubuntu? Wrong inaugural move in game 2 of Carlsen - Nepomniachtchi What are some good strategies to test a floating point arithmetic implementation for double numbers? Identifying a tabletop book that has a panther with blue swirls on the cover strcat_new() function, not present in standard C library more hot questions Newest selenium questions feed Subscribe to RSS Newest selenium questions feed To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader. Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Help Mobile Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Service Contact Us Cookie Settings Cookie Policy Stack Exchange Network Technology Culture & recreation Life & arts Science Professional Business API Data Blog Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram site design / logo © 2021 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa. rev 2021.11.30.40849 Stack Overflow works best with JavaScript enabled Your privacy By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy. Accept all cookies Customize settings