jq - Flatten or "explode" an array-valued field, in an array of objects? - Stack Overflow
jq - Flatten or "explode" an array-valued field, in an array of objects? - Stack Overflow Stack Overflow About Products For Teams Stack Overflow Public questions & answers Stack Overflow for Teams Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers Jobs Programming & related technical career opportunities Talent Recruit tech talent & build your employer brand Advertising Reach developers & technologists worldwide About the company Loading… Log in Sign up current community Stack Overflow help chat Meta Stack Overflow your communities Sign up or log in to customize your list. more stack exchange communities company blog Home Public Questions Tags Users Collectives Explore Collectives Find a Job Jobs Companies Teams Stack Overflow for Teams – Collaborate and share knowledge with a private group. Create a free Team What is Teams? Teams Create free Team Collectives on Stack Overflow Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most. Learn more Teams Q&A for work Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search. Learn more Flatten or "explode" an array-valued field, in an array of objects? Ask Question Asked today Active today Viewed 20 times 0 I have this data: [
  { "path": "x", "types": ["a", "b"] },
  { "path": "y", "types": ["c", "d"] }
]
 And I am looking to obtain this output: { "path": "x", "type": "a" }
{ "path": "x", "type": "b" }
{ "path": "y", "type": "c" }
{ "path": "y", "type": "d" }
 How would I do this with Jq? jq Share Follow asked 4 hours ago shadowtalkershadowtalker 9,54222 gold badges3636 silver badges7575 bronze badges Add a comment | 1 Answer 1 Active Oldest Votes 1 Try .[] | {path, type: .types[]}
 {"path":"x","type":"a"}
{"path":"x","type":"b"}
{"path":"y","type":"c"}
{"path":"y","type":"d"}
 Demo Use the --compact-output or -c option to also have the same compact formatting. Share Follow answered 3 hours ago pmfpmf 1,6651111 silver badges1414 bronze badges Add a comment | Your Answer Thanks for contributing an answer to Stack Overflow! Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research! But avoid … Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers. Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience. To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers. Draft saved Draft discarded Sign up or log in Sign up using Google Sign up using Facebook Sign up using Email and Password Submit Post as a guest Name Email Required, but never shown Post as a guest Name Email Required, but never shown Post Your Answer Discard By clicking “Post Your Answer”, you agree to our terms of service, privacy policy and cookie policy Not the answer you're looking for? Browse other questions tagged jq or ask your own question. The Overflow Blog The four engineering metrics that will streamline your software delivery Podcast 396: Does modern parenting require spyware? Featured on Meta Reducing the weight of our footer Two B or not two B - Farewell, BoltClock and Bhargav! Community input needed: The rules for collectives articles Related 346 Select objects based on value of variable in object using jq 13 How do I collect unique elements of an array-valued field across multiple objects in jq? 343 How to filter an array of objects based on values in an inner array with jq? 335 Using jq to parse and display multiple fields in a json serially 151 How do I update a single value in a json document using jq? 167 JQ: Select multiple conditions 54 How to filter array of objects by element property values using jq? 1 Flatten array for properties in nested array of JSON objects using jq 1 Flatten JSON with Jq with array index in output 1 Flatten JSON data with jq Hot Network Questions Why does 'find' command on Alpine seem to require escaping '?' but not on Ubuntu? What is the difference between a waiting move and zugzwang? Would authors be too powerful for your typical medieval fantasy setting? Why doesn't common investment advice include the idea of pulling out of the market during downturns? Airflow too strong in one of the registers Name of a live-action Saturday morning show from the '70s, involving bigfoot/caveman? What is the structure from which a sign is hung called? How did the classic Macintosh come to use Eurocard connectors? Remove matching lines from all files Why is TOTP two-factor digits behaviour different between Android and iOS implementations of Google Authenticator? All distances different on a chessboard Some Questions About Sentence Clauses Simulating solar system with Newtons law How does a smart contract "run on a blockchain" under-the-hood? Valueing Coding over Physics, how to address this in applications? Converting polygon to list of coordinates with shapely Can/should I change GFI outlet to standard outlet Why was Pepsi free in 1985? Can I manually reset Cellular network configuration without losing WiFi passwords? Was the Harcourt COVID-19 isolate paper ever published? Can Heisenberg's uncertainty principle be used to prove the electron can't exist in the nucleus in this way? Wrong inaugural move in game 2 of Carlsen - Nepomniachtchi How to correctly use lists inside Compile Matrix to triangle more hot questions Question feed Subscribe to RSS Question feed To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader. Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Help Mobile Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Service Contact Us Cookie Settings Cookie Policy Stack Exchange Network Technology Culture & recreation Life & arts Science Professional Business API Data Blog Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram site design / logo © 2021 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa. rev 2021.11.30.40849 Stack Overflow works best with JavaScript enabled Your privacy By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy. Accept all cookies Customize settings