azure - MS Teams CallRecord: where is the first CallSegment and how I can access it? - Stack Overflow
azure - MS Teams CallRecord: where is the first CallSegment and how I can access it? - Stack Overflow Stack Overflow About Products For Teams Stack Overflow Public questions & answers Stack Overflow for Teams Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers Jobs Programming & related technical career opportunities Talent Recruit tech talent & build your employer brand Advertising Reach developers & technologists worldwide About the company Loading… Log in Sign up current community Stack Overflow help chat Meta Stack Overflow your communities Sign up or log in to customize your list. more stack exchange communities company blog Home Public Questions Tags Users Collectives Explore Collectives Find a Job Jobs Companies Teams Stack Overflow for Teams – Collaborate and share knowledge with a private group. Create a free Team What is Teams? Teams Create free Team Collectives on Stack Overflow Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most. Learn more Teams Q&A for work Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search. Learn more MS Teams CallRecord: where is the first CallSegment and how I can access it? Ask Question Asked today Active today Viewed 5 times 0 in the call seen in the next image, the 2nd user has 2 Call segment but in the call record on the last one is shown. If my mind is correct i left the call and joined later again. See parts of the JSON-File of the CallRecord above. What happened to the 1st segment and how I can access it ? I have no idea what goes wrong here. Can someone help me? azure microsoft-graph-api webhooks Share Follow asked 4 hours ago ingo_wwingo_ww 5377 bronze badges Add a comment | 0 Active Oldest Votes Know someone who can answer? Share a link to this question via email, Twitter, or Facebook. Your Answer Thanks for contributing an answer to Stack Overflow! Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research! But avoid … Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers. Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience. To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers. Draft saved Draft discarded Sign up or log in Sign up using Google Sign up using Facebook Sign up using Email and Password Submit Post as a guest Name Email Required, but never shown Post as a guest Name Email Required, but never shown Post Your Answer Discard By clicking “Post Your Answer”, you agree to our terms of service, privacy policy and cookie policy Browse other questions tagged azure microsoft-graph-api webhooks or ask your own question. The Overflow Blog The four engineering metrics that will streamline your software delivery Podcast 396: Does modern parenting require spyware? Featured on Meta Reducing the weight of our footer Two B or not two B - Farewell, BoltClock and Bhargav! Community input needed: The rules for collectives articles Related 11 How can I keep my Azure WebJob running without "Always On" 0 How does Azure's DnsManagementClient work with MSI? (AzureServiceTokenProvider) 0 Unable to create a pool with custom images on MS Azure 2 Kusto Query : Retrieve latest 2 runs based on the time and summarize 2 Programmatically access Tags in Teams 9 Microsoft Teams access policy - New-CsApplicationAccessPolicy returns 404 0 Azure change notification for CallRecords: lifecycle notification doesn't work for me Hot Network Questions Is there any means to improve vehicle use other than the artificer's 6th-level Tool Expertise feature? Why is Makkari deaf and mute? How did mechanical engineers work before SolidWorks? Can the 6502 clock be changed on the fly? Are there countries where politicians and senior government officials can be forced to be personally invested in their official decisions? Why does 'find' command on Alpine seem to require escaping '?' but not on Ubuntu? Book or story where humans are genetically engineered to act as AI? DC-DC Converter output: 6.21 V instead of 5.5 V How annoying are mouse clicks on an air plane Is it a good idea to respond at all if a person I never heard of is asking for a reference letter? Meaning of 'white mask on my otherwise tan face' How can I patch a hole on the underside of an inner tube? Does the AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine (or any known vaccine) increase infection rates? Identifying a tabletop book that has a panther with blue swirls on the cover Did Lord Acton ever say "freedom faces four major challenges"? What is the most unique type of philosophy someone can naturally develop? Laser and mirrors on a 4x4 grid Matrix to triangle Can I manually reset Cellular network configuration without losing WiFi passwords? Reuse picture for visa (US & EU) Valueing Coding over Physics, how to address this in applications? Why do I get through so many exhaust pipes? Geometric conditional Probability Instance on Points Geometry Node to skip every other instance + offset more hot questions Question feed Subscribe to RSS Question feed To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader. Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Help Mobile Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Service Contact Us Cookie Settings Cookie Policy Stack Exchange Network Technology Culture & recreation Life & arts Science Professional Business API Data Blog Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram site design / logo © 2021 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa. rev 2021.11.30.40849 Stack Overflow works best with JavaScript enabled Your privacy By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy. Accept all cookies Customize settings