flutter - Question regarding best practice for separating strings into separate files - Stack Overflow
flutter - Question regarding best practice for separating strings into separate files - Stack Overflow Stack Overflow About Products For Teams Stack Overflow Public questions & answers Stack Overflow for Teams Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers Jobs Programming & related technical career opportunities Talent Recruit tech talent & build your employer brand Advertising Reach developers & technologists worldwide About the company Loading… Log in Sign up current community Stack Overflow help chat Meta Stack Overflow your communities Sign up or log in to customize your list. more stack exchange communities company blog Home Public Questions Tags Users Collectives Explore Collectives Find a Job Jobs Companies Teams Stack Overflow for Teams – Collaborate and share knowledge with a private group. Create a free Team What is Teams? Teams Create free Team Collectives on Stack Overflow Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most. Learn more Teams Q&A for work Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search. Learn more Question regarding best practice for separating strings into separate files Ask Question Asked today Active today Viewed 12 times -1 Generally, due to the code being more organized, I find codebases tend to separate strings into variables in separate files. What's confusing me is using a variable reference prevents me from using the const keyword. Therefore, although the code looks more organized, it's not as efficient as during state changes, as the text widget will also re-render. There may be a way to prevent this, I've tried for example using final when declaring variables but I still can't use the const keyword. Example case child: Text(
   exampleText,
   style: exampleStyling,
),
 Separate file String exampleText = 'hello world';
 flutter Share Follow asked 4 hours ago SachuSachu 15988 bronze badges Add a comment | 0 Active Oldest Votes Know someone who can answer? Share a link to this question via email, Twitter, or Facebook. Your Answer Thanks for contributing an answer to Stack Overflow! Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research! But avoid … Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers. Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience. To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers. Draft saved Draft discarded Sign up or log in Sign up using Google Sign up using Facebook Sign up using Email and Password Submit Post as a guest Name Email Required, but never shown Post as a guest Name Email Required, but never shown Post Your Answer Discard By clicking “Post Your Answer”, you agree to our terms of service, privacy policy and cookie policy Browse other questions tagged flutter or ask your own question. The Overflow Blog The four engineering metrics that will streamline your software delivery Podcast 396: Does modern parenting require spyware? Featured on Meta Reducing the weight of our footer Two B or not two B - Farewell, BoltClock and Bhargav! Community input needed: The rules for collectives articles Related 17 How can I offset a scaffold widget in Flutter? 0 Flutter: Best practice for nested async HTTP calls 0 Best practice for assigning key for different widgets? 7 How to properly use GetX with TextField and some server side validation? 3 Flutter In App purchase (subscription) automatically refund after three days 0 Best practice for Flutter widget hierarchy 1 Best practice for storing user information Hot Network Questions How often do I need to hand out spell scrolls as the DM in order to balance the Wizard's spell list with the Cleric's? Converting polygon to list of coordinates with shapely How to detect power cut remotely? Meaning of 'white mask on my otherwise tan face' Geometric conditional Probability Was the Harcourt COVID-19 isolate paper ever published? Is it a good idea to respond at all if a person I never heard of is asking for a reference letter? Wrong inaugural move in game 2 of Carlsen - Nepomniachtchi What are some good strategies to test a floating point arithmetic implementation for double numbers? Why is Makkari deaf and mute? Why can the UK's Competition and Markets Authority tell Facebook to sell Giphy? Find shortest path between two vertices that uses at most one negative edge Worst case of Slowsort Matrix to triangle Can Heisenberg's uncertainty principle be used to prove the electron can't exist in the nucleus in this way? Double entry bookkeeping - Record incoming money which I would hold temporarily as a custodian How can I patch a hole on the underside of an inner tube? Is there any means to improve vehicle use other than the artificer's 6th-level Tool Expertise feature? VLC won't work on Ubuntu 20.04.3 LTS Some Questions About Sentence Clauses How are paths of particles tracked in particle accelerators? Why do I get through so many exhaust pipes? Why did cracks form over the rebar grid in my concrete footings? Are database unique indexes a mask on bad scripting? more hot questions Question feed Subscribe to RSS Question feed To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader. lang-dart Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Help Mobile Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Service Contact Us Cookie Settings Cookie Policy Stack Exchange Network Technology Culture & recreation Life & arts Science Professional Business API Data Blog Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram site design / logo © 2021 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa. rev 2021.11.30.40849 Stack Overflow works best with JavaScript enabled Your privacy By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy. Accept all cookies Customize settings