Newest 'flutter' Questions - Stack Overflow
Newest 'flutter' Questions - Stack Overflow Stack Overflow About Products For Teams Stack Overflow Public questions & answers Stack Overflow for Teams Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers Jobs Programming & related technical career opportunities Talent Recruit tech talent & build your employer brand Advertising Reach developers & technologists worldwide About the company Loading… Log in Sign up current community Stack Overflow help chat Meta Stack Overflow your communities Sign up or log in to customize your list. more stack exchange communities company blog Home Public Questions Tags Users Collectives Explore Collectives Find a Job Jobs Companies Teams Stack Overflow for Teams – Collaborate and share knowledge with a private group. Create a free Team What is Teams? Teams Create free Team Collectives on Stack Overflow Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most. Learn more Teams Q&A for work Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search. Learn more Questions tagged [flutter] Ask Question Flutter is an open-source UI software development kit created by Google. It is used to develop applications for Android, iOS, Linux, Mac, Windows, Google Fuchsia and the web from a single codebase. Flutter apps are written in the Dart language. Learn more… Top users Synonyms (1) 108,637 questions Newest Active Bountied 8 Unanswered More Bountied 8 Unanswered Frequent Votes Unanswered (my tags) Filter Filter by No answers No accepted answer Has bounty Sorted by Newest Recent activity Most votes Most frequent Bounty ending soon Tagged with My watched tags The following tags: Apply filter Cancel 0 votes 0answers 4 views Flutter Android revenuecat subscription status is active even after expiration I am using Revenuecat (purchases_flutter: ^3.7.0) plugin in my Flutter Android app. However I noticed, even if the (test) subscription has been ended the code shows it is still active. I am using the ... android flutter revenuecat asked 12 mins ago Sam 2,67033 gold badges2727 silver badges5151 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 9 views My flutter app gives me this error when i try to build can anyone help me with that? Could not determine the dependencies of task ':app:lintVitalRelease'. Could not resolve all artifacts for configuration ':app:debugRuntimeClasspath'. Could not resolve org.jitsi.react:jitsi-meet-sdk:3.... flutter android-studio gradle build.gradle flutter-dependencies asked 21 mins ago Abdalrhman Alkady 1 0 votes 0answers 5 views Getting JSON data from my SQL to Flutter and then using it into widgets hope you are all well this would be my first post on here and i am barely new to flutter. The thing is i am trying to pull some info from my website to the flutter application and present it in like ... json flutter dart asked 28 mins ago ?????? ???????? 1 0 votes 0answers 5 views How to Filter Hive for values I am trying to filter my hive box commentsCacheBox for all pid keys with the int value 21 and put the results in a list This is the Hive Box: {pid: 21, userComment: Keep going, you got this!} {pid: 21,... android flutter dart asked 39 mins ago Ian Rajkumar 10911 silver badge66 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 3 views (Flutter) Click on radio button and fill in other input fields in the same page I want to code in Flutter when clicking on the radio button opens a section where you can fill in other input fields in the SAME page. flutter radio-button input-field asked 50 mins ago SimonaG 1133 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 7 views Flutter app stuck on black screen when resuming on Android am so so sorry if am duplicating an already-asked question, but following similar questions that have already been asked tend to be very different from what am actually facing. I have these two apps, ... flutter asked 53 mins ago Zionnite 9322 silver badges88 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 5 views Error when installing cloud_firestore flutter for Android It's been hours that I'm trying to install cloud_firestore to my flutter app. I have installed many plugins, so I don't know what's wrong. This is what I did: I opened pubspec.yaml, I added ... firebase flutter dart google-cloud-firestore plugins asked 56 mins ago Edoardo 51944 silver badges1818 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 6 views Retrieve Provider list with Riverpod Is it possible to retrieve all (active) Provider list with Riverpod? This will help to analyze various thing if we use a lot of Provider, like when we forgot to add autoDispose on Provider that is not ... flutter provider riverpod asked 1 hour ago Ryde 52266 silver badges1818 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 6 views Flutter How to display Chips text on the screen when Chip's pressed? Was Wondering how could i display the text that is within the Chip on the screen when the user taps on the chip, would like the text to be below the Chip, and when the user presses the chips and the ... flutter dart flutter-layout asked 1 hour ago Ajan 111 bronze badge 0 votes 1answer 15 views Flutter unbounded height error if using Spacer in Column inside another Column I am stuck... This is my code broken down: Column( children: [ Column( children: [ Text('Whyy'), Spacer(), Text('crash?'), ], ), ... flutter dart flutter-layout flutter-column asked 2 hours ago Chris 63499 silver badges3636 bronze badges -1 votes 0answers 10 views Getting "Instance of Future<String>" in Firestore instead of the actual value I am aware that there are similar posts and yet I still don't know how to solve this one. wonder if you could help and thanks in advance. currently, I am trying to save a list of image urls in ... firebase flutter google-cloud-firestore asked 2 hours ago Saw Tha Wah 133 bronze badges 0 votes 2answers 25 views How to make the entire page in flutter scrollable I want to make the entire page in flutter scrollable, while the height in each element inside remains dynamic. Now the two Expanded elements have fixed height and are vertically scrollable - I want to ... flutter dart scroll asked 2 hours ago BradG 49111 gold badge88 silver badges2222 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 7 views FirebaseAuth.instance.currentUser!uid changes when creating a new user (which is not logged in) I have just noticed that when I am logged in as a User A and and I create a new User B inside the app using: await FirebaseAuth.instance .createUserWithEmailAndPassword( email: ... flutter dart authentication google-cloud-firestore firebase-authentication asked 2 hours ago AturicLiqr 333 bronze badges 0 votes 1answer 13 views Unhandled Exception: type 'String' is not a subtype of type 'DateTime' in type cast im new in flutter i want to get data from snapshot and load to screen but got this exception how can i fix it sorry for my bad english transaction_db.dart class TransactionDB { String dbName; ... flutter asked 3 hours ago warag 311 bronze badge 0 votes 0answers 5 views Flutter: auto_route, Navigating to a child route from parent route throwing an exception I'm using auto_route package for my flutter app navigation. I have this router: @MaterialAutoRouter( replaceInRouteName: 'Page,Route', routes: <AutoRoute>[ AutoRoute( page: ... flutter flutter-navigation asked 3 hours ago Simou 45666 silver badges1818 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 7 views Implement Firebase App Check for Flutter app I want to add Firebase App Check service to my Flutter app. I found this tutorial: https://firebase.flutter.dev/docs/app-check/usage, I have been able to complete these steps, however I do not get how ... firebase flutter firebase-app-check asked 3 hours ago user12051965 12944 silver badges1616 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 3 views Query JSON array of object in Flutter Supabase I'm using Flutter and Supabase and I'm trying to fetch all elements in a table that partially match an array field. I have a table with a jsonb array column that contains a list of objects (PollItem) ... flutter supabase asked 3 hours ago clooock 355 bronze badges -3 votes 0answers 10 views How can i call/open an app in my app frame? I want to display the contents of Uber app and allow user to control it within another app frame. By frame I mean top and bottom navigation bar. flutter android-studio installed-applications asked 3 hours ago Muhammad Akram 122 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 7 views Migrating my bloc app to null safety. error: 'AssignmentBloc' doesn't conform to the bound 'BlocBase<AssignmentState>' of the type parameter 'B' I'm migrating my flutter app to null-safety and I get this error on my BlocProvider and BlocBuilder. 'AssignmentBloc' doesn't conform to the bound 'BlocBase<AssignmentState>' of the type ... flutter dart bloc state-management flutter-bloc asked 3 hours ago thecoder.co 2555 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 7 views Flutter hot reload not refresh current browser window until I focus it I am writing a test application in Android Studio. Hot reload works fine in the Android emulator (Google Pixel), and when saving the project, the application immediately overloads in the emulator ... flutter browser emulation reload asked 3 hours ago Dmitry Z 1 0 votes 1answer 7 views Flutter - DateFormat from String to US date format I have a container/text thats being brought back from as part of a list view. It builds a dynamic list from the database. The .createAt is the datetime. ... json flutter date asked 3 hours ago Boon 1 -1 votes 0answers 12 views Question regarding best practice for separating strings into separate files Generally, due to the code being more organized, I find codebases tend to separate strings into variables in separate files. What's confusing me is using a variable reference prevents me from using ... flutter asked 4 hours ago Sachu 15988 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 4 views How to download a CSV in Flutter Web keeping a cross-platform code? I am generating a csv file from a List<List<dynamic>> named rows as follows ... String csv = const ListToCsvConverter().convert(rows); Then, If I'm on a mobile (Android or IOS) I send the ... flutter flutter-dependencies flutter-web asked 4 hours ago David L 42422 silver badges1111 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 14 views VScode BUILD FAILED Exception: Gradle task assembleDebug failed with exit code 1 I am trying to code an app for the first time with flutter in vscode and I am getting this error, FAILURE: Build failed with an exception. Where: Build file 'C:\Users\ajgoc\Desktop\Badges\badges_gram\... flutter gradle visual-studio-code build.gradle asked 4 hours ago adamgockel 111 bronze badge -2 votes 0answers 11 views How can i retrieve data from realtime firebase in fluttre enter image description here I am saving data from a Humidity and Temperature sensor to a realtime database and i want to get this value to my flutter app firebase flutter asked 4 hours ago Ahmed Daqqa 1 0 votes 1answer 16 views Flutter graphql query with variable I am testing flutter graphql for first time. Here is my query and variables that I am using graphql explorer. My question is before I pass the query and queryVariables, I need to replace 1001 in ... flutter dart graphql asked 4 hours ago Alex Aung 1,03133 gold badges1414 silver badges3232 bronze badges 0 votes 1answer 19 views Flutter The body might complete normally, causing 'null' to be returned, but the return type is a potentially non-nullable type? I am returning a data from an API using flutter and I have a problem telling me that The body might complete normally, causing 'null' to be returned, but the return type is a potentially non-nullable ... flutter dart asked 4 hours ago Diaa M. Shalabi 66633 silver badges1313 bronze badges 0 votes 1answer 17 views How to extract data from a multipart/form-data response? I am uploading images to a storageAPI using POST method with content-type of multipart/form-data. The api returns an object response that looks as below: { "id": "6d50c066-cf65-4748-... flutter dart flutter-web asked 5 hours ago Emmon 17144 silver badges1717 bronze badges -3 votes 0answers 17 views Flutter stop adding list item I have an avatar list that displays how many people there is that session, it displays fine, but I need that if there's more than 5 users, the fifth will display an opacity photo of the last user, and ... list flutter image dart indexing asked 5 hours ago thays garcia 3522 bronze badges -1 votes 0answers 12 views How to great a listview.builder that is reuseable {flutter} Hello i am triing to create a reusable widget of listview.builder how can i make it reusable widget. I have been trying but i am not able to pass the index, is there any way to make it reusable ?? flutter asked 5 hours ago Onchez 1 0 votes 1answer 15 views Flutter IconButton set size after initialization I have a ButtonBar which has either 5 or 6 buttons. I.e. it always has 5 buttons and based on a condition, it gets an extra 6th button. I want to assign an icon size to each button (each button has ... flutter asked 5 hours ago Wouter Vandenputte 1,58744 gold badges1919 silver badges3535 bronze badges -1 votes 1answer 19 views What is the difference between a Flutter Mobile or Web app? Are there any specific configuration in Flutter platform that should be changed for Mobile or Web apps before deployment? Or it's just about defining different size screens and make it more responsive ... flutter web mobile comparison asked 5 hours ago GoodMan 2544 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 13 views flutter textTheme does not set I have two button in may flutter app.one of them is for toggle theme and another one is for change locale for support english and farsi language in app. everything is ok and app work correctly but ... flutter flutter-theme flutter-localizations flutter-font asked 6 hours ago john 30533 silver badges1616 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 7 views Bloc listiner not listen to changes I am trying to listen to a cubit after changing state but not updating I have an ads screen I go edit a car then in my ads screen I am listening to the edit car cubit if did change I will update the ... flutter asked 6 hours ago Mo_ 1555 bronze badges 0 votes 1answer 11 views How to stack cursor textfield over keyboard on Flutter? How to solve this error?, i want to stack cursor tetxfield over keyboard. Actually result I want the result like this I tried used stack widget but it's not work. My source Code Stack( ... flutter flutter-textinputfield asked 6 hours ago Fajra Risqulla 1 1 vote 0answers 12 views Flutter setState() is not updating a Flame SpriteAnimationWidget I am currently using a SpriteAnimationWidget from Flame, and I want to have different animations by clicking buttons. To test out if this works, I am changing the animation parameter of the ... flutter dart flutter-layout flutter-animation flame asked 6 hours ago Andy K 15511 silver badge1313 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 9 views Flutter: is there a way to dismiss a AlertDialog by tapping/clicking ON the alert, and not on the area around the dialog? I think that the tap/click even on the AlertDialog should dismiss the dialog (assuming there are no buttons, so this should be configurable). Seems to be no way to do this... flutter asked 6 hours ago Sunil Gupta 111 bronze badge 0 votes 0answers 14 views Cannot show api data inside Tabbarview flutter When i use a TabBarView i cannot show the page where it's showing api data inside chart: It is showing the chart when its not inside TabBarView tho: I can show dummy data from json example inside ... flutter dart asked 6 hours ago FDjawid 6511 silver badge1010 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 9 views I got this error "Error: Not found: 'dart:html'" but i don't need this file flutter I am trying to connect my app with the firebase package but when adding the package in pubspec.ymal . I am not able to compile my program. I also change the version of the firebase package but it ... firebase flutter flutter-dependencies flutter-web flutter-test asked 6 hours ago Talha Iqbal 3744 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 16 views Need guidance with my flutter apps database [closed] I am currently working on an app that's will have aspects of personal profiles and also the ability to post stories on a location base mapping software. I have started of using Hasura + Heroku, but ... sql sql-server database flutter asked 6 hours ago Nicholas Martin 1 0 votes 1answer 10 views Flutter How to set usermodel Im trying CRUD operations with GetX to Firebase. I also created my database. Here the codes: class DataBaseFB { FirebaseFirestore _firebaseFirestore = FirebaseFirestore.instance; Future<... firebase flutter asked 6 hours ago Tolga Y?lmaz 4144 bronze badges 1 vote 1answer 24 views How to create this progress indicator? Specially I don't know how to make Flow animation I want to know how to make that flow animation. Any one know? flutter dart progress-bar flutter-animation asked 6 hours ago Vithani Chandresh 40511 gold badge55 silver badges66 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 8 views flutter accessed to textEditingController fields with GloabalKey I need to use my TextEditingController controller from another widget. i find some issues similar like mine on the web i follow the advices step by step but nothing happen. i'm not too smart with ... flutter sqlite key state-management texteditingcontroller asked 6 hours ago Leo L-Mrc 122 bronze badges 0 votes 2answers 26 views How to prevent widgets from placing themselves under notifications bar / camera? In all my apps, I get the problem of having my widgets place themselves under the camera/notification bar. I usually just place a sizedbox at the top to prevent it but it feels like a bad solution. Is ... android flutter dart android-layout asked 7 hours ago Jocko 2833 bronze badges 0 votes 0answers 20 views How to give out a dynamic list of a certain type as a list of widgets in flutter? I am pretty new to flutter and I want to give out a list of a type TimeOfDay, class that I made, as a list of widgets. I already wrote this code: //... List<TimeFoodDry> dry = <TimeFoodDry>... android ios flutter dart raspberry-pi asked 7 hours ago Tin Pocrnic 1 0 votes 0answers 16 views Firebase snapshot listeners is so high in my flutter app I m working on flutter app using firebase authentification and firestore , and i noticed recently a weird behavior in the console (Subscription metrics), i have around 11 users in my firebase auth and ... firebase flutter dart google-cloud-firestore firebase-authentication asked 7 hours ago Aguni Dev 111 bronze badge 0 votes 0answers 27 views How to solve variable not initialize in flutter State? I am using floor to develop app with sqlite db. But when I start to initialize the database object I got this error: Variable database has not been initialized. This is my code: class ... flutter asked 7 hours ago Diaa M. Shalabi 66633 silver badges1313 bronze badges 1 vote 1answer 14 views Flutter: Some Android licenses not accepted. Cannot accept licenses I'm unable to accept licenses. When I run flutter doctor -v, this is displayed: [!] Android toolchain - develop for Android devices (Android SDK version 31.0.0) • Android SDK at /home/gledyson/bin/... android flutter android-studio flutter-doctor asked 7 hours ago G. ShadowBroker 1511 silver badge44 bronze badges -1 votes 0answers 19 views adding two JSON objects in the same Listview simultaneously in flutter I'm new and exploring flutter and I've run into quite a problem. that is I've been trying to add two JSON objects (which one has a text data and the other has audio data) in my List View. text data ... json flutter asked 7 hours ago Mohammed Bekele 1133 bronze badges 0 votes 2answers 31 views Firebase Notification icon is gray Although I did this solution which is in stackoverflow, the icon still the same. <meta-data android:name="com.google.firebase.messaging.default_notification_icon" android:resource=&... firebase flutter firebase-realtime-database push-notification firebase-cloud-messaging asked 8 hours ago efesahin 11188 bronze badges 1 2 3 4 5 … 2173 Next The Overflow Blog The four engineering metrics that will streamline your software delivery Podcast 396: Does modern parenting require spyware? Featured on Meta Reducing the weight of our footer Two B or not two B - Farewell, BoltClock and Bhargav! Community input needed: The rules for collectives articles Related Tags dart × 49666 android × 13317 firebase × 9889 flutter-layout × 9581 google-cloud-firestore × 6191 ios × 5304 flutter-dependencies × 3799 android-studio × 2940 flutter-web × 2635 json × 2123 firebase-authentication × 2003 flutter-animation × 1686 listview × 1547 widget × 1278 flutter-test × 1273 bloc × 1237 mobile × 1138 api × 1118 gradle × 1068 visual-studio-code × 1047 firebase-cloud-messaging × 1039 flutter-provider × 999 list × 953 xcode × 950 firebase-realtime-database × 928 more related tags Hot Network Questions Identifying a tabletop book that has a panther with blue swirls on the cover How does a smart contract "run on a blockchain" under-the-hood? Are there countries where politicians and senior government officials can be forced to be personally invested in their official decisions? Can I initialize only one qubit in a 4-qubit circuit? Can a giant mountain be used as a wind shield? Remove matching lines from all files Meaning of 'white mask on my otherwise tan face' Can sound travel through light? Matrix to triangle How did mechanical engineers work before SolidWorks? How to treat Copyleft Open Source licenses? Why was Pepsi free in 1985? Why do I get through so many exhaust pipes? Are database unique indexes a mask on bad scripting? What is the difference between /lib and /usr/lib and /var/lib? Can a US physician prescribe meds to non-US residents? Can I manually reset Cellular network configuration without losing WiFi passwords? What to look for in a first telescope for a child? Split list by sequential entries How to justify burning people for energy? Reference request: Generic k3 surface has Picard number 1 How can I generate multiple hashes in Mac terminal for multiple files? Why does 'find' command on Alpine seem to require escaping '?' but not on Ubuntu? Can I use a 2x10 rear derailleur with 3 front rings? more hot questions Newest flutter questions feed Subscribe to RSS Newest flutter questions feed To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader. Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Help Mobile Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Service Contact Us Cookie Settings Cookie Policy Stack Exchange Network Technology Culture & recreation Life & arts Science Professional Business API Data Blog Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram site design / logo © 2021 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa. rev 2021.11.30.40849 Stack Overflow works best with JavaScript enabled Your privacy By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy. Accept all cookies Customize settings