ios - Add user input to a file when filling out sign up form - Stack Overflow
ios - Add user input to a file when filling out sign up form - Stack Overflow Stack Overflow About Products For Teams Stack Overflow Public questions & answers Stack Overflow for Teams Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers Jobs Programming & related technical career opportunities Talent Recruit tech talent & build your employer brand Advertising Reach developers & technologists worldwide About the company Loading… Log in Sign up current community Stack Overflow help chat Meta Stack Overflow your communities Sign up or log in to customize your list. more stack exchange communities company blog Home Public Questions Tags Users Collectives Explore Collectives Find a Job Jobs Companies Teams Stack Overflow for Teams – Collaborate and share knowledge with a private group. Create a free Team What is Teams? Teams Create free Team Collectives on Stack Overflow Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most. Learn more Teams Q&A for work Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search. Learn more Add user input to a file when filling out sign up form [closed] Ask Question Asked today Active today Viewed 11 times 0 Closed. This question needs to be more focused. It is not currently accepting answers. Want to improve this question? Update the question so it focuses on one problem only by editing this post. Closed 1 hour ago. Improve this question I have a sign up page that was made in swift but when a user fills it out I want to add their data to a text file. How would I go about doing this? ios swift xcode Share Follow asked 4 hours ago zleffzleff 1733 bronze badges 2 Check Codable protocol. Encode the form and write the encoded data to disk or upload it if needed. – Leo Dabus 3 hours ago "I want to add their data to a text file" For what purpose? – El Tomato 1 hour ago Add a comment | 0 Active Oldest Votes Browse other questions tagged ios swift xcode or ask your own question. The Overflow Blog The four engineering metrics that will streamline your software delivery Podcast 396: Does modern parenting require spyware? Featured on Meta Reducing the weight of our footer Two B or not two B - Farewell, BoltClock and Bhargav! Community input needed: The rules for collectives articles Related 1065 How to change the name of an iOS app? 1303 How do I sort an NSMutableArray with custom objects in it? 1754 How can I make a UITextField move up when the keyboard is present - on starting to edit? 1448 Passing data between view controllers 1360 How can I disable ARC for a single file in a project? 1287 performSelector may cause a leak because its selector is unknown 1065 How do I call Objective-C code from Swift? 533 What does an exclamation mark mean in the Swift language? 962 Swift Beta performance: sorting arrays 620 iOS app with framework crashed on device, dyld: Library not loaded, Xcode 6 Beta Hot Network Questions Reference request: Generic k3 surface has Picard number 1 Is there any means to improve vehicle use other than the artificer's 6th-level Tool Expertise feature? Array of Object to the single Object Are there countries where politicians and senior government officials can be forced to be personally invested in their official decisions? How to treat Copyleft Open Source licenses? Can I include GPLv3 licensed documentation in a collection of GFDL licensed documents, or: what are the limits of an "Aggregate" in GFDLv1.3/GPLv3? Book or story where humans are genetically engineered to act as AI? Reuse picture for visa (US & EU) Would authors be too powerful for your typical medieval fantasy setting? Was the Harcourt COVID-19 isolate paper ever published? How to translate “Wir müssen wissen, wir werden wissen.” into Latin? Would it be possible to put wind turbines alongside runways that are driven by the exhaust of planes? What size are these mosaics of Justinian and Theodora? Skim excess power from a resonant circuit without draining it? Did Lord Acton ever say "freedom faces four major challenges"? Some Questions About Sentence Clauses What is the most unique type of philosophy someone can naturally develop? Matrix to triangle How did mechanical engineers work before SolidWorks? Instance on Points Geometry Node to skip every other instance + offset What to look for in a first telescope for a child? All distances different on a chessboard Why did cracks form over the rebar grid in my concrete footings? Can C++ deduce argument type from default value? more hot questions lang-swift Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Help Mobile Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Service Contact Us Cookie Settings Cookie Policy Stack Exchange Network Technology Culture & recreation Life & arts Science Professional Business API Data Blog Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram site design / logo © 2021 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa. rev 2021.11.30.40849 Stack Overflow works best with JavaScript enabled Your privacy By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy. Accept all cookies Customize settings