Podcast 396: Does modern parenting require spyware? - Stack Overflow Blog
Podcast 396: Does modern parenting require spyware? - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company podcast November 30, 2021 Podcast 396: Does modern parenting require spyware? Should developers build tools for parents to monitor every aspect of their children's digital lives? Ben Popper Director of Content In this episode, Ben and Ryan chat about the tools available to parents who want to keep tabs on their kids while they are playing games or using apps. What roles do developers play in determining the ethics of these situations, and how do software savvy adults manage child rearing in an era where life is increasingly lived online? The conversation was inspired by Epic’s decision to make it’s Kid’s Web Service’s parent verification free to all developers. Ben has been grappling with these questions since 2013, when he wrote about allowing screen time into his young son’s life. One thing that old article does remind us; how incredibly indestructible the original iPad was. A true tank of a tablet! Thanks to our lifeboat badge winner of the week, javimuu, for explaining: How to get a Thumbail / Preview image from Server Video Url in Swift 3.0 TRANSCRIPT Tags: monitoring, spyware, survelliance, the stack overflow podcast Related podcast November 12, 2021 Podcast 392: Do polyglots have an edge when it comes to mastering programming languages? French, Swahili, Perl, Danish, Spanish, and C#. Ryan Donovan Content Marketer podcast June 15, 2021 Podcast 347: Information foraging – the tactics great developers use to find solutions How much time do you spend writing code, versus looking for the right solution? Ben Popper Director of Content podcast November 5, 2021 Podcast 390: Web3 won’t save us If we tear up the rules and build a new internet, how can we avoid making the same mistakes? Ben Popper Director of Content podcast August 13, 2021 Podcast 366: Move fast and make sure nobody gets pager alerts at 2AM No one should be woken up because there was a misconfiguration in a YAML file and it pointed a DB to the wrong location. Ben Popper Director of Content Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ? This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram