How a tiny shrimp fires a savage shock wave using just its claw | New Scientist
How a tiny shrimp fires a savage shock wave using just its claw | New Scientist × NEWSLETTERS Sign up to read our regular email newsletters New Scientistimage/svg+xml Subscribe and save Menu news podcasts video technology space physics health more mind environment crosswords shop courses events tours jobs SIGN UP TO THE DAILY NEWSLETTER Sign In Search How a tiny shrimp fires a savage shock wave using just its claw Life 27 October 2017 By Aylin Woodward This shrimp is anything but feeble Getty Images/iStockphoto This reef ain’t big enough for the both of us. Two pistol shrimp face each other, each spreading open its giant snapping claw – nearly half the size of its body. One or both of them then snaps the claw shut in its opponent’s direction, firing off a powerful water jet at speeds up to 30 metres per second. These shrimp shootouts are rarely fatal, but can leave the loser retreating with missing claws or puncture wounds. But the high-speed squirt isn’t what harms their target – it’s the resulting shock wave. Now we have glimpsed how this unfolds in fine detail. If you stick your head under coastal tropical waters, you may hear a sound like chestnuts crackling as they roast. At a volume of about 200 decibels – louder than a .22 calibre rifle shot – these pops are some of the loudest in the ocean, second only to sperm whale clicks. Advertisement Originally, marine scientists thought the sounds were produced by the impact of the shrimps’ claws closing. Now, we know that they ring out when an air bubble collapses around the watery salvo, much as when bubbles form in our joints and rapidly collapse as we crack our knuckles. Prior work didn’t explore precisely how this bubble forms, says Phoevos Koukouvinis at the City University of London. “We knew the bubbles were there, but we didn’t know what they looked like.” So his team sought to unravel the mystery by simulating what happens after the shrimp shuts its claw at different speeds. Read more – Zoologger: Shrimp wields strongest club in the world They found that when the claw snaps shut, friction between the fast-moving jet and the still water surrounding it creates a swirling vortex. Once the vortex starts spinning rapidly enough, it leaves a void in the center, like the dimple in your tea as you stir it. Eventually that void collapses, and as it does, it releases a powerful pressure wave. All of this happens in less than half a millisecond, Koukouvinis says. Because these shrimp only grow to about 5 centimetres, their underwater weapons are limited to targeting animals of a similarly minuscule size. But Nancy Knowlton at the Smithsonian Institution in Washington DC doesn’t recommend sticking your hand in any tank holding the shrimp. “You wouldn’t feel anything if you’re just snorkelling near a reef, but if you have your hand in front of a shrimp’s claw you’re definitely feeling it when it goes off,” she says. “It hurts.” And that’s the point. Pistol shrimp are scavengers, eating detritus on the sandy ocean floor, so they don’t often use their bubble-gun claws to stun prey, Knowlton says. Instead, they use their shock waves to protect their mates and homes in some of the tiniest gunfights on earth. Journal reference: Nature Scientific Reports, DOI: 10.1038/s41598-017-14312-0 More on these topics: oceans marine biology Advertisement Trending Latest Video Free Living robots made from frog cells can replicate themselves in a dish How to beat the bookies by turning their odds against them How Minecraft is helping children with autism make new friends A single vaccine could protect against many mosquito-borne diseases A pair of nearby supermassive black holes are heading for a collision Can omicron-specific vaccines arrive fast enough to make a difference? Covid booster shots are pushing protection to unexpected heights Arctic may switch from snow to rain-dominated as early as 2060 Covid-19 news: All UK adults to be offered boosters to tackle omicron A pair of nearby supermassive black holes are heading for a collision The Leidenfrost effect: Levitating droplets bounce off each other Why haven't aliens made contact? Science with Sam explains Stunning bird photos showcase the diversity of our avian friends White rhino DNA taken during post-mortem may help conservation efforts IBM creates largest ever superconducting quantum computer Covid booster shots are pushing protection to unexpected heights Arctic may switch from snow to rain-dominated as early as 2060 Covid-19 news: All UK adults to be offered boosters to tackle omicron A pair of nearby supermassive black holes are heading for a collision What is the smallest whole number with no interesting properties? Magazine issue 3150 , published 4 November 2017 Subscribe View in the app Previous article Bitcoin mining uses more energy than Ecuador – but there’s a fix Next article A third of animals are vanishing as roads spread through forests Advertisement MORE FROM NEW SCIENTIST Arctic may switch from snow to rain-dominated as early as 2060 Environment An ultra-hot gas giant exoplanet orbits its star once every 16 hours Space Mysterious origin of Earth's water may be explained by solar wind Space Material inspired by blood vessels can extract uranium from seawater Technology Sign up to our newsletters Enter your email address to get started Contact us Help About us Privacy policy Cookie policy Terms & conditions Advertise Write for us Events Science jobs Syndication RSS feeds Gift subscriptions Student subscriptions Educational subscriptions Corporate subscriptionsCookie Settings Get the app FOLLOW US © Copyright New Scientist Ltd. Back to top