Soda jerk - Wikipedia
Soda jerk - Wikipedia Soda jerk From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Occupation The examples and perspective in this article deal primarily with the United States and do not represent a worldwide view of the subject. You may improve this article, discuss the issue on the talk page, or create a new article, as appropriate. (May 2021) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Soda jerk passing an ice cream soda between two soda fountains, New York City, 1936 A soda jerk tossing a scoop of ice cream into a metal mixing cup before blending a malted shake, Texas, 1939 A soda jerk (or soda jerker[1]) is a person—typically a youth—who operates the soda fountain in a drugstore, often preparing and serving soda drinks and ice cream sodas.[2] These are made by mixing flavored syrup, carbonated water, and occasionally malt powder over either ice or a few scoops of ice cream. The drink would then be served in a tall glass with a long-handled spoon, most commonly known as a "soda spoon", and drinking straws. Contents 1 Origin of term 2 History 3 Lingo 4 See also 5 References 6 External links Origin of term[edit] The term soda jerk was a pun on soda clerk, the formal job title of the drugstore assistants who operated soda fountains. It was inspired by the "jerking" action the server would implement to drive the fountain handle back and forth when adding soda.[3] The soda fountain spigot itself was typically a sturdy, shiny fixture attached at the end of a pipe which protruded over the counter and curved down at the end for filling glasses. Since most drinks required carbonated water, the tap handle was built large to accommodate frequent use of the fountain. History[edit] The practice of operating a soda fountain in a drugstore reached its peak popularity in the 1940s[4] but was popular from the '20s through the '50s. The position was coveted, and was commonly only awarded after protracted menial labor in the store.[4] Soda jerking was dominated by popular young men with loud personalities and good people skills because of the popular environment and "cool" association. These boys who worked at the shops were expected to serve the drinks and also socialize and entertain the guests. Michael Karl Witzel describes an archetypal soda jerk as "[a] consummate showman, innovator and freelance linguist ... the pop culture star of the Gilded Age".[4][clarification needed] The proliferation of ice cream parlors declined as drive-ins and walk-up fast food stands grew in popularity, and grill and fry cooks replaced soda jerks.[4] Some modern theme diners are styled after establishments in the 1950s and include a soda jerk, along with retro jukeboxes and booth seating. Generally, soda jerks wore iconic white paper or cloth caps called "soda jerk caps", button-up shirts with a bow tie and an apron as their uniform. Lingo[edit] Soda jerks were known for having their own lingo for how their drinks were made. They created nicknames for different drinks. For example, they called a glass of milk "baby" and a strawberry milkshake "in the hay".[5] A Coca-Cola with ice was called "scratch one". They also had lingo to express how they wanted their drink to be served. Coffee, or "draw one" would be served strong if called "draw one from the south". If a drink was ordered with extra ice it was "heavy on the hail".[5] Some of these terms are still used today. Egg creams, the shorthand for a chocolate soda with some milk, are served in many places and are especially known in New York where they originated.[6] Another term from soda jerk lingo that remains in use is "concrete," a name for a super thick milkshake or custard. For example, Culver's continues to serve their famous Concrete Mixers.[7] See also[edit] Drink portal Barista Bartender Lunch counter Milk bar Milkshake Coffeehouse References[edit] ^ Allen, Irving (1993). The City in Slang. Oxford, Oxfordshire: Oxford University Press. ISBN 0-19-509265-1. ^ Partridge, Eric (2006). The New Partridge Dictionary of Slang and Unconventional English. New York: Routledge. ISBN 0-415-21258-8. ^ McCafferty, Kevin. "Soda Jerks History". San Gabriel Valley Menus. Archived from the original on 2006-09-27. Retrieved 2006-11-03. ^ a b c d Witzel, Michael (2002). "Splendour of the Soda Fountains". The American Drive-in Restaurant. Osceola: Motorbooks International. ISBN 0-7603-1350-4. ^ a b "Soda Jerks: A Lingo All Their Own". Hamilton Beach. Retrieved 2018-05-21. ^ Stradley, Linda (April 17, 2015). "New York Egg Cream Recipe And History". What's Cooking America. Retrieved 2018-05-21. ^ "Concrete Mixers | Frozen Custard & Candy Mixers". Culver's. Retrieved 2018-05-21. External links[edit] Albright, Andrea. "Longtime soda jerk closes up shop", The Topeka Capital-Journal, July 9, 2000. Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Soda_jerk&oldid=1047846403" Categories: Cultural history of the United States Obsolete occupations Food services occupations Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Articles with limited geographic scope from May 2021 United States-centric Wikipedia articles needing clarification from December 2018 Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants expanded collapsed Views Read Edit View history More expanded collapsed Search Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Languages Català Deutsch Español ??? Português Edit links This page was last edited on 2 October 2021, at 21:08 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement