Pepsi Free | Futurepedia | Fandom
Pepsi Free | Futurepedia | Fandom Futurepedia Explore Main Page All Pages Community Recent Blog Posts Characters Marty McFly Emmett Brown Biff Tannen Lorraine Baines McFly Jennifer Parker George McFly More... Movies Back to the Future Back to the Future Part II Back to the Future Part III Back to the Future: The Ride Back to the Future trilogy Other Media Back to the Future: The Animated Series Comic Books Books » Back to the Future: The Game Other video games BTTF Culture Time travel Timeline Technology Transportation Locations Companies Entertainment FANDOM Games Movies TV Video Wikis Explore Wikis Community Central Start a Wiki Register Don't have an account? Sign In Advertisement Futurepedia, the BTTF Wiki 3,301 pages Explore Main Page All Pages Community Recent Blog Posts Characters Marty McFly Emmett Brown Biff Tannen Lorraine Baines McFly Jennifer Parker George McFly More... Movies Back to the Future Back to the Future Part II Back to the Future Part III Back to the Future: The Ride Back to the Future trilogy Other Media Back to the Future: The Animated Series Comic Books Books » Back to the Future: The Game Other video games BTTF Culture Time travel Timeline Technology Transportation Locations Companies Entertainment in: Articles with non-canon elements, 1985, Beverages Pepsi Free View source History Talk (0) A Diet Pepsi Free can next to Marty's clock radio in 1985. Marty: "Give me a Pepsi Free." Lou: "You want a Pepsi, pal, you're gonna pay for it." — Ordering a drink at Lou's Pepsi Free was a caffeine-free version of Pepsi cola which was introduced in 1982 and was extremely popular by 1985. Contents 1 History 2 Appearances 3 See also 4 External links History In 1987, Pepsi Free was rebranded as Caffeine Free Pepsi and has been known by that name ever since. When Marty McFly ordered a Pepsi Free in Lou's Cafe on November 5, 1955 , the counterman interpreted that Marty literally wanted a Pepsi, free — i.e. at no cost. Note: The following section is considered non-canon or is disputed in canonicity. In 2035, Bistro Twenty/15 sold every Pepsi variety that was available between the end of the 20th century and 2015. One of these Pepsi varieties was Caffeine Free Pepsi, which was Pepsi Free as it had been known since it was re-branded in 1987. They also offered the rebranded version of Diet Pepsi Free, known as Diet Caffeine Free Pepsi. Non-canon or disputable information ends here. Appearances Back to the Future Back to the Future: Continuum Conundrum Issue 9: "Continuum Conundrum Part 4" See also Pepsi Pepsi Perfect Pepsi on Wikipedia External links Cafe 80's Prices - Back to the Predictions Pepsi Logo - Back to the Predictions Pepsi Perfect - Back to the Predictions Pepsi Perfect Limited Edition - Back to the Predictions Pepsi Perfect may be Imperfect - Back to the Predictions Categories Categories Articles with non-canon elements 1985 Beverages Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted. Advertisement Fan Feed More Futurepedia 1 Twin Pines Mall 2 Flux capacitor 3 Back to the Future timeline Explore Wikis Universal Conquest Wiki Let's Go Luna! Wiki Club 57 Wiki Explore properties Fandom D&D Beyond Cortex RPG Muthead Futhead Fanatical Follow Us Overview What is Fandom? About Careers Press Contact Terms of Use Privacy Policy Global Sitemap Local Sitemap Community Community Central Support Help Do Not Sell My Info Advertise Media Kit Fandomatic Contact Fandom Apps Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat. Futurepedia is a FANDOM Movies Community. View Mobile Site FandomShop Newsletter Join Fan Lab