Company - Stack Overflow Blog
Company - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company Company Get the latest Stack Overflow news and product launches. company November 17, 2021 Introducing Content Health, a new way to keep the knowledge base up-to-date We’re thrilled to announce a new and foundational feature, Content Health, that helps to intelligently identify and surface potentially outdated or inaccurate knowledge—content that needs to change. Lori Colston Sr. Product Marketing Manager company November 2, 2021 Our new and enhanced Microsoft Teams integration With new features and tweaks to the Stack Overflow for Teams integration with Microsoft Teams, we’re sure that the new and improved Version 2 will come in handy. This article provides additional context around the evolution of this integration and how it might be useful to your organization! Vasudha Swaminathan community October 27, 2021 Strong teams are more than just connected, they are communities Organizations and leaders have a responsibility to ensure people are heard, to build high levels of trust and enable them to show up authentically— all so they can do their best work. Prashanth Chandrasekar CEO community September 22, 2021 GitLab launches Collective on Stack Overflow A new way to discover and share knowledge about version control, CI/CD, DevSecOps, and all-remote workflows Jascha Drel community August 2, 2021 Communities are a catalyst for technology development It's a big day at Stack Overflow! Our Prosus deal has closed and our latest Dev Survey is live. Prashanth Chandrasekar CEO company July 26, 2021 A deep dive into how we designed Collectives Here's a detailed look into how we designed Collectives, starting from the initial ideation to all the decisions and considerations that led to what it is today. Piper Lawson and Caro Guindon community June 25, 2021 Unpacking the user research behind Collectives™ We spent over a hundred hours in 1-on-1 interviews and collected thousands of survey responses to better understand what our community and customers wanted to see in this product. This feedback shaped everything from naming to moderation, and helped us evolve and iterate the concept into what it is today. Ben Popper and Mithila Fox company June 23, 2021 Announcing the launch of Collectives™ on Stack Overflow We're thrilled to be launching this new product with Google Cloud and Go. Teresa Dietrich company June 16, 2021 State of the Stack Q2 2021 We have had an exciting couple of months here at Stack Overflow. That excitement doesn't change our plans for the future, detailed in this post. Teresa Dietrich company June 2, 2021 Prosus’s Acquisition of Stack Overflow: Our Exciting Next Chapter This morning, Prosus (PROSY) has announced its intention to acquire Stack Overflow for 1.8 billion dollars. This is tremendously exciting news for our employees, our customers, our community members, and for our shareholders, and I will share a bit more about what it all means. Prashanth Chandrasekar CEO company May 3, 2021 Find knowledge faster: New Articles features We've made the Articles in Stack Overflow for Teams even better. With these updates, knowledge becomes even easier to find, content becomes better, and the experience becomes more enhanced. Lori Colston Sr. Product Marketing Manager Posts navigation 1 2 3 4 5 … 77 Next posts by author or Search for: © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram