Code for a Living - Stack Overflow Blog
Code for a Living - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company Code for a Living We’re here to help developers at every stage of their careers. code-for-a-living November 29, 2021 The four engineering metrics that will streamline your software delivery Productive teams get product fixes and features out the door fast. Here's the metrics to check to see how your team is delivering. Tanaka Mutakwa Content Marketer code-for-a-living November 15, 2021 Building a QA process for your deep learning pipeline in practice Deep learning models still need testing, but many of the common testing approaches don't apply. But with the right methods, you can still make sure your pipeline produces good results. Tobias Kupek Content Marketer code-for-a-living November 10, 2021 Does ES6 make JavaScript frameworks obsolete? Is ES6 the JavaScript release that will finally free us from the endless cycle of frameworks? Theodoros ‘Theo’ Karasavvas and Ryan Donovan code-for-a-living November 8, 2021 Adapting a design system to work for the Metaverse Design systems enable developers and designers to rapidly develop products that are consistent across all platforms. Existing design standards could be directly applied in the Metaverse. But many other concepts, unique to 3D environments, required a lot of definition. Mike Wolfson Content Marketer code-for-a-living November 1, 2021 Why SOLID principles are still the foundation for modern software architecture While computing has changed a lot in the 20 years since the SOLID principles were conceived, they are still the best practices for designing software. Daniel Orner Content Marketer code-for-a-living October 25, 2021 Node.js makes fullstack programming easy with server-side JavaScript Here's why JavaScript has been the language of choice for front-end and back-end web dev. Theodoros ‘Theo’ Karasavvas Content Marketer code-for-a-living October 20, 2021 Why hooks are the best thing to happen to React Originally, React mainly used class components, which can be strenuous at times as you always had to switch between classes, higher-order components, and render props. With React hooks, you can now do all these without switching, using functional components. Doro Onome Content Marketer code-for-a-living October 18, 2021 Code quality: a concern for businesses, bottom lines, and empathetic programmers Code quality affects the mental state of a programmer, communication within their team, and the incentives attached to their work. Improve your code and you can improve your organizational health and competence as a whole. Isaac Lyman Content Marketer code-for-a-living October 13, 2021 Why solve a problem twice? Design patterns let you apply existing solutions to your code Software design patterns are like best practices employed by many experienced software developers. You can use design patterns to make your application scalable and flexible. Giridhar Talla Content Marketer stackoverflowknows October 11, 2021 Shift to remote work prompted more cybersecurity questions than any breach For this edition of Stack Overflow Knows, we did a deep dive into cybersecurity topics across Stack Overflow and Stack Exchange sites to spotlight trends and reflect on how conversations are evolving within the developer and technical community. David Gibson Senior Data Analyst code-for-a-living October 6, 2021 Best practices for REST API security: Authentication and authorization If you have a REST API accessible on the internet, you're going to need to secure it. Here's the best practices on how to do that. Sam Scott and Graham Neray Posts navigation 1 2 3 4 5 … 27 Next posts by author or Search for: © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram