Lori Colston, Stack Overflow Blog
Lori Colston, Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company Lori Colston company November 17, 2021 Introducing Content Health, a new way to keep the knowledge base up-to-date We’re thrilled to announce a new and foundational feature, Content Health, that helps to intelligently identify and surface potentially outdated or inaccurate knowledge—content that needs to change. Lori Colston Sr. Product Marketing Manager company May 3, 2021 Find knowledge faster: New Articles features We've made the Articles in Stack Overflow for Teams even better. With these updates, knowledge becomes even easier to find, content becomes better, and the experience becomes more enhanced. Lori Colston Sr. Product Marketing Manager so-for-teams January 21, 2021 Personalized feeds now available on Teams Stay up-to-date on your teams questions and answers with the new For You feed. Lori Colston Sr. Product Marketing Manager so-for-teams May 6, 2020 Introducing Collections on Stack Overflow for Teams We're introducing a new feature to the Business tier of SO for Team: Collections. Collections allow you to group together a set of similar questions, helping to create an even better knowledge sharing experience. Questions can be arranged within a Collection so that users follow them in a specific order or not. It’s up to you. Lori Colston Sr. Product Marketing Manager promotion March 19, 2020 Coming together as a community to connect Stack Overflow is a community at our center. And communities come together in times of need. Our normal work routines have been disrupted and may continue to change for a while. We’re all still defining the new “business as usual.” We’re all trying to figure out how to maintain team collaboration when lines of communication… Lori Colston Sr. Product Marketing Manager January 14, 2020 We’re making it easier to try Stack Overflow for Teams Today, we’re thrilled to announce that our Basic version of Teams no longer requires a personal or corporate credit card to get started. No more pestering your boss for their sacred purchase card or putting down your personal card to only set several different calendar reminders to make sure you cancel in time before getting charged. Lori Colston Sr. Product Marketing Manager company December 4, 2019 Introducing Subject Matter Experts The new feature, available on the Business tier of Stack Overflow for Teams and coming to the Enterprise tier in 2020, allows your Team to associate a subject matter expert (SME) with a tag. Multiple Team members can be designated as SMEs for any given tag by your Team Admin. Lori Colston Sr. Product Marketing Manager uncategorized November 4, 2019 Announcing our new integration with Microsoft Teams Collaboration and information discovery should be easy, no matter what software platform you’re using at the moment. Today we’re excited to announce a new integration that will allow you to access the power of Stack Overflow for Teams inside of Microsoft Teams! Internally we’ve taken to calling it Teams Teams, or just Teams². Whatever you… Lori Colston Sr. Product Marketing Manager posts by author or Search for: © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram