Full Stack Software Engineer - Research Technology at JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. - Stack Overflow
Full Stack Software Engineer - Research Technology at JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.  - Stack Overflow Stack Overflow About Products For Teams Stack Overflow Public questions & answers Stack Overflow for Teams Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers Jobs Programming & related technical career opportunities Talent Recruit tech talent & build your employer brand Advertising Reach developers & technologists worldwide About the company Loading… Log in Sign up current community Stack Overflow help chat Meta Stack Overflow your communities Sign up or log in to customize your list. more stack exchange communities company blog Home Public Questions Tags Users Collectives Explore Collectives Find a Job Jobs Companies Teams Stack Overflow for Teams – Collaborate and share knowledge with a private group. Create a free Team What is Teams? Teams Create free Team Collectives on Stack Overflow Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most. Learn more Teams Q&A for work Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search. Learn more Jobs Companies Why Jobs? Applications Developer Story You’ve submitted an application. View all your job applications in one central place. Full Stack Software Engineer - Research Technology JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. – London, UK Save Save Share via email Share via Twitter Share via Facebook Report Dismiss Overview Company More Jobs React to this job: 0 0 0 Posted 19 hours ago About this job Job type: Full-time Role: Full Stack Developer Industry: Financial Services Company size: 10k+ people Company type: Public Technologies amazon-web-servicesjavacontinuous-integration Job description Our Asset and Wealth Management division is driven by innovators like you who are driven to create technology solutions that make us work more efficiently and help our businesses grow. It's our mission to efficiently take care of our clients' wealth, helping them get, and remain properly invested. Across 27 cities, our team of 4,600 agile technologists thrive in a cloud-native environment that values continuous learning using a data-centric approach in developing innovative technology solutions. This role is for an experienced full stack software engineer to join a brand new team developing tools to ensure essential data is easily accessible by our business to provide enhanced investment insights and increased efficiencies. You should be a polyglot developer, comfortable with using different languages and selecting the most appropriate one for a given task. Leveraging the scalability offered by the cloud and incorporating tools from AWS such as Lambda, SageMaker and EMR you will be using the latest software engineering techniques including CI/CD and infrastructure as code to deliver value to the business in fast paced and modern environment. This is a highly technical but also business facing role that offers the right candidate the opportunity to grow and develop their skills whilst working on exciting, innovative and business critical products. As an outstanding software engineer you will be: * Extremely curious with a demonstrated ability for self-directed learning. * Excellent technical and design skills, with a strong focus on a functional design patterns * Quality focused with an understanding and appreciation of code review and automated testing * Self-starting with the ability and confidence to drive and deliver solutions into production Essential qualifications and experience * Excellent knowledge of Python along with libraries such as Panda, Flask and PySpark * Strong knowledge of AWS * Good knowledge of either Java or C# * Extensive knowledge of core computer science (data structures/algorithms/networks * Strong understanding of software performance and trade-offs * Experience of continuous integration and deployment tools and approaches Desirable qualifications and experience * AWS services: Lambda, EMR, SageMaker, API Gateway * Spring Boot * VBA, Excel integration J.P. Morgan is a global leader in financial services, providing strategic advice and products to the world's most prominent corporations, governments, wealthy individuals and institutional investors. Our first-class business in a first-class way approach to serving clients drives everything we do. We strive to build trusted, long-term partnerships to help our clients achieve their business objectives. We recognize that our people are our strength and the diverse talents they bring to our global workforce are directly linked to our success. We are an equal opportunity employer and place a high value on diversity and inclusion at our company. We do not discriminate on the basis of any protected attribute, including race, religion, color, national origin, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, age, marital or veteran status, pregnancy or disability, or any other basis protected under applicable law. In accordance with applicable law, we make reasonable accommodations for applicants' and employees' religious practices and beliefs, as well as any mental health or physical disability needs. About the company JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. www.jpmorganchase.com/techcareers Follow your favorite companies By selecting follow, you are opting in to receive an email digest from the companies you follow. Don't worry, your information isn't shared. Follow Follow your favorite companies By selecting follow, you are opting in to receive an email digest from the companies you follow. Don't worry, your information isn't shared. Follow Benefits Healthcare and Insurance Plans Wellness Programs Maternity and Paternity Leave, Adoption Assistance Retirement Savings Programs Paid Time Off Tuition Assistance Access to Arts and Entertainment Program Stock Purchase Plan Charitable Contribution Matching Learning & Development Resources Learn more about JPMorgan Chase & Co More jobs at JPMorgan Chase & Co. View all ›› Okay, you won’t see this job anymore. Undo Java Software Engineer JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. • Wilmington, DE javajavascriptapi 19h ago Be one of the first applicants Okay, you won’t see this job anymore. Undo Full Stack Java Software Engineer, Backend JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. • Wilmington, DE reactjsjava 19h ago Okay, you won’t see this job anymore. Undo Full Stack Java Software Engineer, Backend JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. • Wilmington, DE reactjsjava 19h ago Be one of the first applicants Okay, you won’t see this job anymore. Undo Credit Technology - Front-End Software Engineer JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. • London, UK reactjsjavascripttesting 19h ago Okay, you won’t see this job anymore. Undo Full Stack Software Engineering - API JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. • London, UK reactjsjavascriptjava 2d ago Want to get notified about new jobs at JPMorgan Chase & Co.? Create a company alert Your job search status has been updated. Are you looking for a job? When you create a Developer Story, we’ll accelerate your matches and get you in front of employers ASAP. Create a Developer Story Full Stack Software Engineer - Research Technology at JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Help Mobile Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Service Contact Us Cookie Settings Cookie Policy Stack Exchange Network Technology Culture & recreation Life & arts Science Professional Business API Data Blog Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram site design / logo © 2021 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa. rev 2021.11.30.40849 Stack Overflow works best with JavaScript enabled Your privacy By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy. Accept all cookies Customize settings