Podcast 395: Who is building clouds for the independent developer? - Stack Overflow Blog
Podcast 395: Who is building clouds for the independent developer? - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company podcast November 23, 2021 Podcast 395: Who is building clouds for the independent developer? Big enterprise clients looking for "lift and shift" are lucrative clients in the cloud market. But there are also millions of independent developers who need cloud tech at their scale. Ben Popper Director of Content We chat with Gabe Monroy, the new chief product officer at DigitalOcean, about the customers big cloud companies are missing, how to get ready for the millions of new developers poised to enter the market, and the near-universal relevance of XKCD. Episode Notes We kick things off by weighing the merits of two gender-neutral regional pronouns: the familiar y’all and the under appreciated yinz. Now that’s covered… The global population of developers will hit 45 million by 2030, up from 26.9 million in 2021 (EDC). What platforms will they want to build on? Did Kubernetes solve all your problems? Did it create new ones? It seems there’s always an XKCD relevant to our conversation. Today, it’s How standards proliferate. TRANSCRIPT Tags: kubernetes, the stack overflow podcast Related newsletter October 22, 2021 The Overflow #96: A database built for a firehose Welcome to ISSUE #96 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: what drives growth in cybersecurity questions on Stack Overflow, teaching an AI to bid on properties in Monopoly, and every talk from Jamstack Conf 2021 in one handy playlist.… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams podcast July 27, 2021 Podcast 361: Why startups should use Kubernetes from day one We explore Stack Overflow's journey into the world of Kubernetes and containers with one of our software engineers, Max Horstmann. Ben Popper Director of Content newsletter June 4, 2021 The Overflow #76: The 2021 Dev Survey now open! Welcome to ISSUE #76 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. The new Developer Survey is here! But also: precise measurements using imprecise tools and a visual walkthrough of Kubernetes. From the blog The 2021 Developer Survey is now open! stackoverflow.blogWe want to… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams code-for-a-living July 21, 2021 Why you should build on Kubernetes from day one If you’re building a new app today, it might be worth taking a closer look at making it cloud-native and using Kubernetes from the jump. The effort to set up Kubernetes is less than you think. Certainly, it’s less than the effort it would take to refactor your app later on to support containerization. Max Horstmann Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ? This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram