Who owns this outage? Building intelligent escalation chains for modern SRE - Stack Overflow Blog
Who owns this outage? Building intelligent escalation chains for modern SRE - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company podcast November 22, 2021 Who owns this outage? Building intelligent escalation chains for modern SRE Before your organization can resolve an issue, it has to figure out who is on deck to respond. Ben Popper Director of Content If your organization is running code on a production server 24/7, you’re going to need a process to handle when that code—or the infrastructure it runs on—fails. No code is bug free, so failures will happen. That means that your SREs and developers are going to have to spend some time on call and ready to respond to when the application breaks down. On this sponsored episode of the podcast, we talk to Eric Maxwell, a solution architect at xMatters. He took a winding road to get to where he is: after a computer engineering education, he held jobs as field support engineer, product manager, SRE, and finally his current role as a solutions architect, where he serves as something of an SRE for SREs, helping them solve incident management problems with the help of xMatters. When he moved to the SRE role, Maxwell wanted to get back to doing technical work. It was a lateral move within his company, which was migrating an on-prem solution into the cloud. It’s a journey that plenty of companies are making now: breaking an application into microservices, running processes in containers, and using Kubernetes to orchestrate the whole thing. Non-production environments would go down and waste SRE time, making it harder to address problems in the production pipeline. At the heart of their issues was the incident response process. They had several bottlenecks that prevented them from delivering value to their customers quickly. Incidents would send emails to the relevant engineers, sometimes 20 on a single email, which made it easy for any one engineer to ignore the problem—someone else has got this. They had a bad silo problem, where escalating to the right person across groups became an issue of its own. And of course, most of this was manual. Their MTTR—mean time to resolve—was lagging. Maxwell moved over to xMatters because they managed to solve these problems through clever automation. Their product automates the scheduling and notification process so that the right person knows about the incident as soon as possible. At the core of this process was a different MTTR—mean time to respond. Once an engineer started working to resolve a problem, it was all down to runbooks and skill. But the lag between the initial incident and that start was the real slowdown. It’s not just the response from the first SRE on call. It’s the other escalations down the line—to data engineers, for example—that can eat away time. They’ve worked hard to make escalation configuration easy. It not only handles who’s responsible for specific services and metrics, but who’s in the escalation chain from there. When the incident hits, the notifications go out through a series of configured channels; maybe it tries a chat program first, then email, then SMS. The on-call process is often a source of dread, but automating the escalation process can take some of the sting out of it. Check out the episode to learn more. TRANSCRIPT Tags: partnercontent, runbook, sponsored, sre, the stack overflow podcast Related community August 2, 2021 Communities are a catalyst for technology development It's a big day at Stack Overflow! Our Prosus deal has closed and our latest Dev Survey is live. Prashanth Chandrasekar CEO podcast July 13, 2021 Podcast 357: Leaving your job to pursue an indie project as a solo developer What would convince you to leave the safety of steady paycheck to pursue your own adventure? Ben Popper Director of Content newsletter June 4, 2021 The Overflow #76: The 2021 Dev Survey now open! Welcome to ISSUE #76 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. The new Developer Survey is here! But also: precise measurements using imprecise tools and a visual walkthrough of Kubernetes. From the blog The 2021 Developer Survey is now open! stackoverflow.blogWe want to… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams podcast October 26, 2021 Podcast 387: The first ten years of our programming lives Everybody starts somewhere with coding, even if that's just to make your favorite game better. Ryan Donovan Content Marketer Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ? This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram