Podcast 394: what if you could invest in your favorite developer? - Stack Overflow Blog
Podcast 394: what if you could invest in your favorite developer? - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company podcast November 19, 2021 Podcast 394: what if you could invest in your favorite developer? Get your Benjamins before they blow up. Ben Popper Director of Content Open source software makes it easier for anyone to contribute to the health and growth of a project’s codebase. But how do you build a system where users and contributors can participate in the economic value being generated by an organization or platform? We chat with Bradley Miles and Sid Kalla, the co-founders of Roll, which is trying to create an API-first platform for creating tokens and markets that allow users to invest and share in the value of creators or communities they love. Episode Notes You can learn more about Roll, which describes itself as blockchain infrastructure for social money, here. If you want to follow them on social, check out @tryrollhq as well as their personal socials: @bradley_miles_ and @sidkal. If you are interested in this kind of tech, check out previous conversations on Web3 and our chat with Chris Dixon on blockchain. Our lifeboat badge winner of the week is Notnooop, who explained how you can: Make An Emoji Enabling App. Tags: the stack overflow podcast Related newsletter June 18, 2021 The Overflow #78: Blockchain; hype or game changer? Welcome to ISSUE #78 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: Our first Pulse survey looks at what developers think about blockchain, why travel to Mars will be slower than it could be, and a fascinating dive into the early… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams community August 2, 2021 Communities are a catalyst for technology development It's a big day at Stack Overflow! Our Prosus deal has closed and our latest Dev Survey is live. Prashanth Chandrasekar CEO podcast May 28, 2021 Podcast 342: You’re just as likely to ruin a successful product as make it better Working from home? We chat about being your own operations department and battling scope creep solo. Ben Popper Director of Content podcast September 10, 2021 Podcast 374: How valuable is your screen name? Some spicy takes on image compression, super resolution, and the enduring value of your oldest screen names Ben Popper Director of Content 1 Comment Mark Walsh` says: 22 Nov 21 at 2:31 Star Citizen is an example of giving too much to the developer without safe guards to ensure a timely product. [400 million dollars and counting] Reply Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ? This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram