Theodoros ‘Theo’ Karasavvas, Stack Overflow Blog
Theodoros ‘Theo’ Karasavvas, Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company Theodoros ‘Theo’ Karasavvas Theodoros ‘Theo’ Karasavvas is a proud geek and a technical writer. He has written for Ars Technica, Gizmodo, and AT&T Cybersecurity among others. He has a Master of Studies in Law from the University of Athens and speaks four languages. He specializes in writing about current events, tech trends, and privacy technology. code-for-a-living November 10, 2021 Does ES6 make JavaScript frameworks obsolete? Is ES6 the JavaScript release that will finally free us from the endless cycle of frameworks? Theodoros ‘Theo’ Karasavvas and Ryan Donovan code-for-a-living October 25, 2021 Node.js makes fullstack programming easy with server-side JavaScript Here's why JavaScript has been the language of choice for front-end and back-end web dev. Theodoros ‘Theo’ Karasavvas code-for-a-living June 30, 2021 Using collections to make your SQL access easier and more efficient To overcome SQL limitations, many companies introduced programming languages for building applications that interface with SQL databases—for example PL/SQL from Oracle. PL/SQL applications can be inefficient. But you can streamline this interface using data type collections, making PL/SQL applications faster and more efficient. Theodoros ‘Theo’ Karasavvas code-for-a-living March 8, 2021 Infrastructure as code: Create and configure infrastructure elements in seconds IaC allows developers to supply IT environments with multiple lines of code and can be deployed in a matter of minutes (in contrast to manual infrastructure, which can take hours if not days to be deployed). Theodoros ‘Theo’ Karasavvas code-for-a-living February 22, 2021 Choosing Java instead of C++ for low-latency systems When it comes to developing low latency software systems, the received wisdom is that you would be crazy to use anything but C++ because anything else has too high a latency. But I’m here to convince you of the opposite, counter-intuitive, almost heretical notion: that when it comes to achieving low latency in software systems, Java is better. Theodoros ‘Theo’ Karasavvas posts by author or Search for: © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram