Ryan Donovan, Stack Overflow Blog
Ryan Donovan, Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company Ryan Donovan Ryan Donovan helps run editorial for the Stack Overflow blog. He's spend over 15 years as a technical writer embedded in software development teams across multiple industries. He lives in New York City and hopes to meet your dog some day. newsletter November 26, 2021 The Overflow #101: Invest in your favorite developer Welcome to ISSUE #101 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: QA for deep learning pipelines, getting efficient with summation formulas, and finding the point where a table is too big. From the blog Building a QA process for your… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams newsletter November 19, 2021 The Overflow #100! Web3! .NET 6! We love numbers! Welcome to ISSUE #100 of The Overflow! We think that’s a pretty big deal, but everyone using binary isn’t as impressed. This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: systematizing the interface design for 3D spaces, a quirk of document.all that shows up when… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams podcast November 16, 2021 Podcast 393: 250 words per minute on a chorded keyboard? Only if you can think that fast. Can you type at the speed of thought? Ryan Donovan Content Marketer newsletter November 12, 2021 The Overflow #99: These principles are still SOLID Welcome to ISSUE #99 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: big problems for people who can’t solve small problems, the nerdiest argument over a Dungeons and Dragons roll, and using the golden ratio in user interface design. From the… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams podcast November 12, 2021 Podcast 392: Do polyglots have an edge when it comes to mastering programming languages? French, Swahili, Perl, Danish, Spanish, and C#. Ryan Donovan Content Marketer code-for-a-living November 10, 2021 Does ES6 make JavaScript frameworks obsolete? Is ES6 the JavaScript release that will finally free us from the endless cycle of frameworks? Theodoros ‘Theo’ Karasavvas and Ryan Donovan newsletter November 5, 2021 The Overflow #98: Front end: JavaScript. Back end: Also JavaScript. Welcome to ISSUE #98 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: the home team talks through their first ten years in programming, ways to cope with murderous wizards, and science goes too far by rendering DOOM via checkboxes. From the blog… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams podcast November 2, 2021 Podcast 389: The big problem with only being able to solve big problems Don't forget the little springs that keep the big machine running. Ryan Donovan Content Marketer newsletter October 29, 2021 The Overflow #97: Code quality is everyone’s concern Welcome to ISSUE #97 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: why hooks changed the React game, how to preview a short link without clicking through, and politicians who think viewing source is being a hacker. From the blog Code quality:… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams podcast October 29, 2021 Podcast 388: Software for your second brain While computers may let you down, music never does. Ryan Donovan Content Marketer partner-content October 27, 2021 A murder mystery: who killed our user experience? On this sponsored episode of the Stack Overflow Podcast, we talk with Greg Leffler of Splunk about the keys to instrumenting an observable system and how the OpenTelemetry standard allows you to avoid vendor lock in. Ryan Donovan Content Marketer Posts navigation 1 2 3 4 5 … 15 Next posts by author or Search for: © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram