Intel joins Collectives™ on Stack Overflow - Stack Overflow Blog
Intel joins Collectives™ on Stack Overflow - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company November 3, 2021 Intel joins Collectives™ on Stack Overflow Intel is now on Collectives™ on Stack Overflow. Jascha Drel Q&A around Intel technologies has been part of the Stack Overflow knowledge base for years, resulting in tens of thousands of questions and answers on the platform to date. We’re working with Intel to help you find the trusted answers you need, faster, by centralizing that content and connecting you with Intel product experts and trusted users. Intel is now on Collectives™ on Stack Overflow. ICYMI, Collectives are dedicated spaces on Stack Overflow where you can find resources (including questions, recommended answers, and technical articles) related to your favorite technologies grouped together. This Collective will help developers use Intel technologies to support projects across a variety of use cases, from smart cities to gaming and virtual reality, retail, and health and life sciences. It’s a space for you to share your own technical knowledge, collaborate with the Intel team, and access the coding resources you need to do what you do best: build. “Our goal at Stack Overflow is to empower technologists with the knowledge they need, when they need it,” said Teresa Dietrich, Chief Product & Technology Officer at Stack Overflow. “Collectives™ enables technology providers, like Intel, and users to forge connections that ultimately make building and operating technology easier for all. We truly believe that through collaboration, we can enable developers and technologists to find the information they need faster and more confidently.” “Developers are crucial to driving innovation and unlocking the full potential of Intel technologies,” said Bill Pearson, VP, Internet of Things Group General Manager of Developer Enabling at Intel. “Collectives on Stack Overflow provides easy access to relevant information as well as Intel product experts who can answer questions and help accelerate the development journey. Together with Stack Overflow, we’re here to help the growing base of Intel developers to deliver cutting-edge solutions for real-world problems.” This Intel community space is the centralized home for resources covering everything from CPUs to purpose-built AI accelerators and software tools like Intel® Distribution of OpenVINO™ toolkit, Intel® DevCloud, and other Intel-built and supported products and services. You’re able to find trusted answers from Intel product experts, participate in the Collective-specific leaderboard and access how-to guides and knowledge articles around Intel technologies. This is the fourth in a series of Collectives™ launching since we rolled out Collectives™ in June. We’ve already seen over 18,000 community members joining in. To learn more about Collectives, visit https://stackoverflow.com/collectives. To join Intel’s Collective, visit https://stackoverflow.com/collectives/intel. Tags: artificial intelligence, collectives The Stack Overflow Podcast is a weekly conversation about working in software development, learning to code, and the art and culture of computer programming. Related company June 23, 2021 Announcing the launch of Collectives™ on Stack Overflow We're thrilled to be launching this new product with Google Cloud and Go. Teresa Dietrich company July 26, 2021 A deep dive into how we designed Collectives Here's a detailed look into how we designed Collectives, starting from the initial ideation to all the decisions and considerations that led to what it is today. Piper Lawson and Caro Guindon community September 22, 2021 GitLab launches Collective on Stack Overflow A new way to discover and share knowledge about version control, CI/CD, DevSecOps, and all-remote workflows Jascha Drel community August 2, 2021 Communities are a catalyst for technology development It's a big day at Stack Overflow! Our Prosus deal has closed and our latest Dev Survey is live. Prashanth Chandrasekar CEO Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ? This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram