Our new and enhanced Microsoft Teams integration - Stack Overflow Blog
Our new and enhanced Microsoft Teams integration - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company company November 2, 2021 Our new and enhanced Microsoft Teams integration With new features and tweaks to the Stack Overflow for Teams integration with Microsoft Teams, we’re sure that the new and improved Version 2 will come in handy. This article provides additional context around the evolution of this integration and how it might be useful to your organization! Vasudha Swaminathan It’s been nearly two years since Stack Overflow for Teams launched its integration with Microsoft Teams. As one of our inaugural integrations, we worked closely with Microsoft to form a meaningful partnership that paves the way for future Stack Overflow for Teams integrations. Since that launch, scores of our customers have used it to get faster access to knowledge within their existing workflows. We’ve even seen a 137% increase in the MS Teams usage over the past six months within our Enterprise customers. To make this integration even more helpful to users, we’ve been working hard to update it. Since the original launch, we’ve collected feedback from our customers about the most valuable functionalities within Microsoft Teams. Thanks to our product and engineering teams, we’re updating this integration to make the native Stack Overflow for Teams experience available to users directly within Microsoft Teams. With new features and tweaks to the integration, we’re sure that the new and improved Version 2 will come in handy. Below you’ll find additional context around the evolution of this integration and how it might be useful to your organization! An integration is born According to Harvard Business Review, a “collaborative overload trap” is when people schedule and participate in more meetings to be more productive, but these meetings displace focus time and can make employees less productive. That same study noted that “it can take us as many as 23 minutes to get fully back on task after [an] interruption.” Part of the problem could be too many apps, which can contribute to burnout, wasted time, and a general energy drain that permeates the whole company. When fragments of knowledge are stuck in random chat channels in Slack or MS Teams, or hidden away on Google Drive, employees waste time and energy hunting for the disparate information they need. These interruptions and delays can have real impacts on an organization’s bottom line. IDC estimates that Fortune 500 companies lose around $31 billion a year by failing to share knowledge within their organization. Large organizations use multiple business applications to help teams collaborate and coordinate their work: chat applications,homegrown tools, project management, and code repositories, just to name a few. Once they cross that threshold into too many tools, these platforms that are meant to boost productivity actually become a burden. We created the Microsoft Teams integration to minimize the knowledge-hunting problem that can lead to context-switching and ultimately burnout. “Stack Overflow for Teams integration with Microsoft Teams is nice because this is mostly where I do my day-to-day work. I don’t have to leave Microsoft Teams to go to another site.” – Brandon Camerer, Senior User Experience Designer, CloudFit Software Solving for collaborative overload Microsoft Teams is an integral part of many business operations. Our integration with Microsoft Teams removes interruptions and accelerates development time. Specifically, the Stack Overflow for Teams integration provides quick access to answers and solutions, knowledge retention for future reuse, and awareness of new or updated information. You never have to leave Microsoft Teams to find the information you need. Microsoft uses both Microsoft Teams and Stack Overflow for Teams to improve communication and reduce repetitive and distracting pings. “With the integration between Microsoft Teams and Stack Overflow, I’m just super excited to have one place where I can see my questions in an area where I already do a lot of my work today.” Laura MacLeod, Program Manager, Developer Services Division at Microsoft How it works The v2 of this integration provides the features you already love, with new enhancements that make your workday better. Let’s look at what’s new: Minimize context switching At Stack Overflow, we’ve always emphasized the importance of avoiding context switching. With this integration, you never have to leave Microsoft Teams to access your Stack Overflow for Teams knowledge. Our first version of the integration enabled the channel bot action to search all of Stack Overflow for Teams. Search results were then displayed within the channel for quick access to everyone in the channel. With v2, there’s even less context switching: With the message extension feature, a user can search the Stack Overflow for Teams knowledge base, from within a chat channel in Microsoft Teams. The integration provides the best fitting match, and the user is then free to share it with the entire channel. With the Personal App feature, users can have the native experience of Stack Overflow for Teams without leaving Microsoft Teams. They’ll have the ability to quickly view bookmarked, followed, and personal Questions along with personal Articles. Users can now reuse existing knowledge before tapping into teammates by viewing a list of Questions or Articles within a channel’s tab. This knowledge can be filtered by tags that are applicable to the channel. Search the knowledge base via the message extension Quick access to knowledge from Stack Overflow for Teams within a channel’s tab. Knowledge capture A key facet of the Stack Overflow for Teams integration with Microsoft Teams is the ability to capture knowledge directly from Microsoft Teams. This helps users from having to search through long chat threads for critical knowledge. Users can ask questions in the channel bot and receive the best matching result directly within their Microsoft Teams chat. We also prompt users to ask a question on Stack Overflow for Teams if there are no existing matches to a question they’ve searched. Now, we’ve made the knowledge capture functionality stronger through: Converting posts within Microsoft Teams to a question within Stack Overflow for Teams to reuse the knowledge in the future. An ask modal displays within Microsoft Teams to capture additional detail and help to minimize the need to switch between applications. If a user needs help filling out all of the details within the question, teammates can chime in and finish asking the question. New ask modal Personal application This integration now provides a personal oasis of knowledge tailored to a user within a personal app. The personal app links directly to important knowledge including bookmarks, followed Questions, and a user’s own Questions and Articles. This quick access to solutions helps users resolve technical issues even faster now. A native Stack Overflow for Teams experience with a user’s personal app Automated notifications of new or updated knowledge Our Microsoft Teams integration keeps users up-to-date with automated notifications any time something is updated within the Stack Overflow for Teams instance. Users can set up tag-based push notifications to share new questions, answers, comments, and Articles directly within Microsoft Teams. They can also preview new knowledge related to a Tag without leaving Microsoft Teams. Lastly, users can create new notifications or edit existing notifications quickly by interacting with the channel bot within Microsoft Teams. Want to try version 2 of the Microsoft Teams integration? Download it today or, if you’re not already a customer, contact us to learn more about it. Tags: microsoft teams, stack overflow for teams The Stack Overflow Podcast is a weekly conversation about working in software development, learning to code, and the art and culture of computer programming. Related newsletter November 12, 2021 The Overflow #99: These principles are still SOLID Welcome to ISSUE #99 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: big problems for people who can’t solve small problems, the nerdiest argument over a Dungeons and Dragons roll, and using the golden ratio in user interface design. From the… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams company May 3, 2021 Find knowledge faster: New Articles features We've made the Articles in Stack Overflow for Teams even better. With these updates, knowledge becomes even easier to find, content becomes better, and the experience becomes more enhanced. Lori Colston Sr. Product Marketing Manager company November 17, 2021 Introducing Content Health, a new way to keep the knowledge base up-to-date We’re thrilled to announce a new and foundational feature, Content Health, that helps to intelligently identify and surface potentially outdated or inaccurate knowledge—content that needs to change. Lori Colston Sr. Product Marketing Manager company June 2, 2021 Prosus’s Acquisition of Stack Overflow: Our Exciting Next Chapter This morning, Prosus (PROSY) has announced its intention to acquire Stack Overflow for 1.8 billion dollars. This is tremendously exciting news for our employees, our customers, our community members, and for our shareholders, and I will share a bit more about what it all means. Prashanth Chandrasekar CEO 3 Comments Lê Gi?i says: 5 Nov 21 at 5:51 https://stackoverflowsolutions.com/topic/client-stories/microsoft-case-study Reply Mohamad Asmar says: 11 Nov 21 at 3:55 I added the app to my teams but after login & authorize >> the popup didn’t disappear and I am not authorized Reply Jan Lenoch says: 16 Nov 21 at 11:24 Please show some respect to developers’ time and save us from reading the non-technical information found before the “How it works” chapter. It could have been much shorter, if it were without repeated marketo statements. Thanks Reply Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ? This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram