Community - Stack Overflow Blog
Community - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company Community community October 27, 2021 Strong teams are more than just connected, they are communities Organizations and leaders have a responsibility to ensure people are heard, to build high levels of trust and enable them to show up authentically— all so they can do their best work. Prashanth Chandrasekar CEO community September 30, 2021 Check out the Stack Exchange sites that turned 10 years old in Q3 Ten years on the internet is a long time. Let's celebrate the Stack Exchange sites that, as of Q3, have hit that milestone. Juan M Manager, Community Management Team community September 22, 2021 GitLab launches Collective on Stack Overflow A new way to discover and share knowledge about version control, CI/CD, DevSecOps, and all-remote workflows Jascha Drel community September 19, 2021 The Loop: Our Community department roadmap for Q4 2021 It’s time once again for the ritual that I know we’ve all come to love: the quarterly update on Community team projects. This quarter’s projects are constrained by a lack of available technical/engineering resources on our Public Platform team, so you’ll see that we are focusing on projects that don’t require assistance from them. Philippe Beaudette VP-Community community August 19, 2021 Celebrating the Stack Exchange sites that turned 10 years old We're more than just StackOverflow.com; here's a few of the sites in the Stack Exchange network that have been around for a decade! Ben Popper and Juan M community August 2, 2021 Communities are a catalyst for technology development It's a big day at Stack Overflow! Our Prosus deal has closed and our latest Dev Survey is live. Prashanth Chandrasekar CEO community August 2, 2021 The 2021 Stack Overflow Developer Survey is here! Our data reveals some fascinating trends in education, remote work, and web frameworks. Ben Popper and David Gibson community July 29, 2021 The Loop: Our Community & Public Platform Roadmap for Q3 2021 Here's a brief recap of what we accomplished in Q2, along with details on our Q3 plans. Philippe Beaudette VP-Community community June 25, 2021 Unpacking the user research behind Collectives™ We spent over a hundred hours in 1-on-1 interviews and collected thousands of survey responses to better understand what our community and customers wanted to see in this product. This feedback shaped everything from naming to moderation, and helped us evolve and iterate the concept into what it is today. Ben Popper and Mithila Fox stackoverflowknows June 7, 2021 Most developers believe blockchain technology is a game changer But a little over one third disagree, viewing blockchain as mostly hype Ben Popper and David Gibson community May 25, 2021 The 2021 Developer Survey is now open! The 2021 Developer Survey is ready for your input. Ryan Donovan Content Marketer Posts navigation 1 2 3 4 5 … 37 Next posts by author or Search for: © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram