Prashanth Chandrasekar, Stack Overflow Blog
Prashanth Chandrasekar, Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company Prashanth Chandrasekar As Chief Executive Officer of Stack Overflow, the world’s largest and most trusted developer community, responsible for driving Stack Overflow’s overall strategic direction, results and realizing our mission of helping write the script of the future by serving developers and technical workers. Lead an amazing global organization of Stackers who are passionate about making a difference in our community. community October 27, 2021 Strong teams are more than just connected, they are communities Organizations and leaders have a responsibility to ensure people are heard, to build high levels of trust and enable them to show up authentically— all so they can do their best work. Prashanth Chandrasekar CEO community August 2, 2021 Communities are a catalyst for technology development It's a big day at Stack Overflow! Our Prosus deal has closed and our latest Dev Survey is live. Prashanth Chandrasekar CEO company June 2, 2021 Prosus’s Acquisition of Stack Overflow: Our Exciting Next Chapter This morning, Prosus (PROSY) has announced its intention to acquire Stack Overflow for 1.8 billion dollars. This is tremendously exciting news for our employees, our customers, our community members, and for our shareholders, and I will share a bit more about what it all means. Prashanth Chandrasekar CEO company April 26, 2021 Accelerating Stack Overflow’s transformation This quarter's post from our CEO focuses on two strategic priorities: Product-led Transformation and Predictable and Reliable Financial Performance, both of which add value to our community and our customers by allowing us to continue to support and resource them better. Prashanth Chandrasekar CEO company April 7, 2021 An update on our product-led SaaS transformation I’m writing this blog post to share an update on our product-led SaaS transformation, which I’ve discussed in a series of posts over the course of the last year. It’s been a year of transformational change for all types of companies, Stack Overflow included. We are fortunate to have seen great growth from Stack Overflow… Prashanth Chandrasekar CEO company January 27, 2021 Building momentum in our transition to a product led SaaS company We're excited to share our latest results and our plans for the future. Prashanth Chandrasekar CEO community October 28, 2020 Communities and Connections will power our growth in 2021 Our CEO looks back on his first 12 months at Stack Overflow and shares his thoughts on what we're planning for the future. Prashanth Chandrasekar CEO company July 28, 2020 Our Series E Funding – An Inflection Point to Accelerate the Realization of our Mission This is my third in a series of quarterly CEO blog posts. I'm excited to share some very positive updates. Prashanth Chandrasekar CEO June 10, 2020 Steps Stack Overflow is taking to help fight racism Black lives matter, and Stack Overflow is taking concrete steps to help combat systemic racism. Prashanth Chandrasekar CEO company May 7, 2020 A message from our CEO: The Way Forward This is a key moment in our company’s history, as the whole world is dealing with significant uncertainty. Know that you are not alone. We are facing this situation together. Our goal is to stay focused on living our core values and actively connect with teammates, our community, and our customers. Prashanth Chandrasekar CEO company March 9, 2020 A Message to our Employees, Community, and Customers on Covid-19 The safety of our employees, community, and customers are our primary concern. There are a number of measures we’re taking to ensure we manage to safely get through this situation while continuing to serve our community and customers effectively. Prashanth Chandrasekar CEO Posts navigation 1 2 Next posts by author or Search for: © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram