Stack Overflow Blog - Page 2 of 105 - Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow.
Stack Overflow Blog - Page 2 of 105 - Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company code-for-a-living October 20, 2021 Why hooks are the best thing to happen to React Originally, React mainly used class components, which can be strenuous at times as you always had to switch between classes, higher-order components, and render props. With React hooks, you can now do all these without switching, using functional components. Doro Onome Content Marketer code-for-a-living October 18, 2021 Code quality: a concern for businesses, bottom lines, and empathetic programmers Code quality affects the mental state of a programmer, communication within their team, and the incentives attached to their work. Improve your code and you can improve your organizational health and competence as a whole. Isaac Lyman Content Marketer code-for-a-living October 13, 2021 Why solve a problem twice? Design patterns let you apply existing solutions to your code Software design patterns are like best practices employed by many experienced software developers. You can use design patterns to make your application scalable and flexible. Giridhar Talla Content Marketer stackoverflowknows October 11, 2021 Shift to remote work prompted more cybersecurity questions than any breach For this edition of Stack Overflow Knows, we did a deep dive into cybersecurity topics across Stack Overflow and Stack Exchange sites to spotlight trends and reflect on how conversations are evolving within the developer and technical community. David Gibson Senior Data Analyst code-for-a-living October 6, 2021 Best practices for REST API security: Authentication and authorization If you have a REST API accessible on the internet, you're going to need to secure it. Here's the best practices on how to do that. Sam Scott and Graham Neray code-for-a-living October 4, 2021 Extracting text from any file is harder than it looks. Extracting formatting is even harder. We discuss how to handle challenges like this with speed and scale in our latest piece from Hyland Corey Kidd and Ben Truscott community September 30, 2021 Check out the Stack Exchange sites that turned 10 years old in Q3 Ten years on the internet is a long time. Let's celebrate the Stack Exchange sites that, as of Q3, have hit that milestone. Juan M Manager, Community Management Team September 28, 2021 No joke—you can buy our copy/paste keyboard right now Become a better coder...with this one weird click. The copy and paste keyboard from our April Fool's joke is real and available for purchase. Ben Popper Director of Content community September 22, 2021 GitLab launches Collective on Stack Overflow A new way to discover and share knowledge about version control, CI/CD, DevSecOps, and all-remote workflows Jascha Drel community September 19, 2021 The Loop: Our Community department roadmap for Q4 2021 It’s time once again for the ritual that I know we’ve all come to love: the quarterly update on Community team projects. This quarter’s projects are constrained by a lack of available technical/engineering resources on our Public Platform team, so you’ll see that we are focusing on projects that don’t require assistance from them. Philippe Beaudette VP-Community code-for-a-living September 18, 2021 Level Up: Introduction to TypeScript In this one-off Level Up session, we’re exploring TypeScript, a popular programming language used for web development. Josh Goldberg, a Staff Frontend Developer at Codecademy, walks us through the basics of TypeScript. We discuss its relationship to JavaScript, how TypeScript is used in real production environments (like Codecademy itself!), how to get involved in the… Alex Kuntz Content Marketer Posts navigation Previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 … 105 Next posts by author or Search for: © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram