Stack Overflow Blog - Page 3 of 105 - Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow.
Stack Overflow Blog - Page 3 of 105 - Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company code-for-a-living September 13, 2021 Why your data needs a QA process At this point, most software engineers see the value of testing their software regularly. But are you testing your data engineering as well? Corissa E Haury Content Marketer code-for-a-living September 8, 2021 Observability is key to the future of software (and your DevOps career) Observability platforms enable you to easily figure out what’s happening with every request and to identify the cause of issues fast. Learning the principles of observability and OpenTelemetry will set you apart from the crowd and provide you with a skill set that will be in increasing demand as more companies perform cloud migrations. Greg Leffler Content Marketer code-for-a-living September 6, 2021 Scaling front end design with a design system If you're building the same UI components over and over, you might need a design system. Mihir Patel Content Marketer code-for-a-living September 4, 2021 Level Up: Build a Quiz App with SwiftUI – Part 4 In the fourth and final lesson of the series, we’ll learn how to use SwiftUI navigation to present different views to the user. We’ll build a welcome screen with instructions for the user as well as a final screen with their results to the quiz. A user will also have the option to re-take the… Ben Stone Content Marketer stackoverflowknows September 2, 2021 Pandemic lockdowns accelerated cloud migration by three to four years The number of questions across Stack Overflow surged, and new research solidifies this trend. David Gibson and Ben Popper August 30, 2021 The full data set for the 2021 Developer Survey now available! Get your data here! Get your fresh hot 2021 Developer Survey data! Ryan Donovan Content Marketer code-for-a-living August 28, 2021 Level Up: Build a Quiz App with SwiftUI – Part 3 In the third lesson of the series, we’ll continue to incorporate the MVVM architecture and build a view model for our quiz app which mediates communication between the view and the model. Additionally, we’ll build a game model structure and add more questions and functionality for new questions to appear as the user advances through… Ben Stone Content Marketer code-for-a-living August 25, 2021 Diagnose engineering process failures with data visualization Here's three areas where data visualization can make your engineering life easier. Ian Johnson Content Marketer code-for-a-living August 23, 2021 You’re living in the Metaverse, you just don’t know it yet. The concept of the Metaverse was coined by sci-fi author Neal Stephenson decades ago. Have we reached some meaningful inflection point in our journey towards this dream? Ben Popper Director of Content code-for-a-living August 21, 2021 Level Up: Build a Quiz App with SwiftUI – Part 2 In the second lesson of the series, we’ll add state to our quiz app so that it can show users whether they answered correctly. We’ll also build out a model for our quiz questions, and add a settings tab. Here are some Stack Overflow questions related to the work we did in today’s session: What… Ben Stone Content Marketer community August 19, 2021 Celebrating the Stack Exchange sites that turned 10 years old We're more than just StackOverflow.com; here's a few of the sites in the Stack Exchange network that have been around for a decade! Ben Popper and Juan M Posts navigation Previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 105 Next posts by author or Search for: © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram