Stack Overflow Blog - Page 4 of 105 - Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow.
Stack Overflow Blog - Page 4 of 105 - Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company code-for-a-living August 16, 2021 Using stretch work assignments to help engineers grow Stretch work assignments are tasks or projects that are a bit beyond an engineer’s current skill or knowledge level and that allow them to improve and learn new things. When done correctly these assignments serve a dual purpose of providing learning opportunities for your engineers, while at the same time completing a project or task that will help your company. Tanaka Mutakwa Content Marketer code-for-a-living August 14, 2021 Level Up: Build a Quiz App with SwiftUI – Part 1 SwiftUI is Apple’s newest framework for building iOS applications. It uses the best features of the Swift language to enable writing performative, declarative code. If you’ve ever wanted to build your own iOS applications, now is an excellent time to get started. The Codecademy Live: Build a Quiz App with SwiftUI series will be hosted… Ben Stone Content Marketer code-for-a-living August 11, 2021 The strange domain names that developers bought Not every domain is serious business. Here's a few of the fun ones that we at Stack Overflow owned, as well as those owned by our community. Ryan Donovan Content Marketer code-for-a-living August 9, 2021 How writing can advance your career as a developer “In their ?rst few years on the job, engineers spend roughly 30% of their workday writing, while engineers in middle management write for 50% to 70% of their day; those in senior management reportedly spend over 70% and as much as 95% of their day writing.” - Jon Leydens Karl Hughes Content Marketer community August 2, 2021 Communities are a catalyst for technology development It's a big day at Stack Overflow! Our Prosus deal has closed and our latest Dev Survey is live. Prashanth Chandrasekar CEO community August 2, 2021 The 2021 Stack Overflow Developer Survey is here! Our data reveals some fascinating trends in education, remote work, and web frameworks. Ben Popper and David Gibson community July 29, 2021 The Loop: Our Community & Public Platform Roadmap for Q3 2021 Here's a brief recap of what we accomplished in Q2, along with details on our Q3 plans. Philippe Beaudette VP-Community code-for-a-living July 28, 2021 700,000 lines of code, 20 years, and one developer: How Dwarf Fortress is built Dwarf Fortress is one of those oddball passion projects that’s broken into Internet consciousness. It’s a free game where you play either an adventurer or a fortress full of dwarves in a randomly generated fantasy world. The simulation runs deep, with new games creating multiple civilizations with histories, mythologies, and artifacts. I reached out to him to see how he’s managed a single, growing codebase over 15+ years, the perils of pathing, and debugging dead cats. Our conversation below has been edited for clarity. Ryan Donovan Content Marketer company July 26, 2021 A deep dive into how we designed Collectives Here's a detailed look into how we designed Collectives, starting from the initial ideation to all the decisions and considerations that led to what it is today. Piper Lawson and Caro Guindon code-for-a-living July 24, 2021 Level Up: Linear Regression in Python – Part 8 In the eighth and final lesson of the series we’ll practice everything we’ve learned to date by loading and preparing some data, fitting a few different models, and comparing them. This is an open-ended session where we’ll examine some questions from our audience and demonstrate what a data analysis workflow could look like. If you… Sophie Sommer Content Marketer code-for-a-living July 21, 2021 Why you should build on Kubernetes from day one If you’re building a new app today, it might be worth taking a closer look at making it cloud-native and using Kubernetes from the jump. The effort to set up Kubernetes is less than you think. Certainly, it’s less than the effort it would take to refactor your app later on to support containerization. Max Horstmann Posts navigation Previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 … 105 Next posts by author or Search for: © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram