Stack Overflow Blog - Page 5 of 105 - Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow.
Stack Overflow Blog - Page 5 of 105 - Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company code-for-a-living July 19, 2021 Privacy is an afterthought in the software lifecycle. That needs to change. The key to combining privacy and innovation is baking it into the SDLC. Analogous to application security's (AppSec) upstream shift into the development cycle, privacy belongs at the outset of development, not as an afterthought. Here's why. Cillian Kieran Content Marketer code-for-a-living July 14, 2021 Getting started with… Python Here's a collection of resources on how to get started using Python. Ryan Donovan Content Marketer code-for-a-living July 12, 2021 Learning from the real world: A hardware hobby project If you think your software experience will let you build a hardware project easily, you might be a bit too ambitious. It's very different from software. Tomi Mester Content Marketer code-for-a-living July 7, 2021 The unexpected benefits of mentoring others At some point in your career, you may well be advised to seek out a mentor. However, the benefits of being a mentor are often overlooked. Matt Studdert Content Marketer code-for-a-living July 5, 2021 Best practices for writing code comments While there are many resources to help programmers write better code—such as books and static analyzers—there are few for writing better comments. While it's easy to measure the quantity of comments in a program, it's hard to measure the quality, and the two are not necessarily correlated. A bad comment is worse than no comment at all. Here are some rules to help you achieve a happy medium. Ellen Spertus code-for-a-living July 3, 2021 Level Up: Linear Regression in Python – Part 7 In the seventh lesson of the series we’ll discuss some methods for comparing linear regression models. In the process, we’ll learn about the problem of overfitting and investigate some of the pros and cons of various evaluation methods (such as R-squared, adjusted R-squared, log likelihood, AIC, and BIC). We’ll also continue to practice our Python… Sophie Sommer Content Marketer code-for-a-living June 30, 2021 Using collections to make your SQL access easier and more efficient To overcome SQL limitations, many companies introduced programming languages for building applications that interface with SQL databases—for example PL/SQL from Oracle. PL/SQL applications can be inefficient. But you can streamline this interface using data type collections, making PL/SQL applications faster and more efficient. Theodoros ‘Theo’ Karasavvas Content Marketer code-for-a-living June 28, 2021 What makes a great IT consultant – and how you can become one 7N is an international freelance agency that has been connecting the best IT consultants with leading organizations around the world for more than 30 years. Here's the five qualities that make the perfect consultant. Pawel Zdziech, Recruitment and Communications Manager, 7N Content Marketer code-for-a-living June 26, 2021 Level Up: Linear Regression in Python – Part 6 In the sixth lesson of the series we’ll discuss some methods for data transformation to improve a linear regression model. In the process, we’ll learn to simulate data with known properties, review some of the assumptions of linear regression, and continue to practice our Python skills. Here are some Stack Overflow questions related to the… Sophie Sommer Content Marketer community June 25, 2021 Unpacking the user research behind Collectives™ We spent over a hundred hours in 1-on-1 interviews and collected thousands of survey responses to better understand what our community and customers wanted to see in this product. This feedback shaped everything from naming to moderation, and helped us evolve and iterate the concept into what it is today. Ben Popper and Mithila Fox company June 23, 2021 Announcing the launch of Collectives™ on Stack Overflow We're thrilled to be launching this new product with Google Cloud and Go. Teresa Dietrich Posts navigation Previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … 105 Next posts by author or Search for: © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram