The Overflow #101: Invest in your favorite developer - Stack Overflow Blog
The Overflow #101: Invest in your favorite developer - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company newsletter November 26, 2021 The Overflow #101: Invest in your favorite developer Welcome to ISSUE #101 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: QA for deep learning pipelines, getting efficient with summation formulas, and finding the point where a table is too big. From the blog Building a QA process for your… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams Welcome to ISSUE #101 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: QA for deep learning pipelines, getting efficient with summation formulas, and finding the point where a table is too big. From the blog Building a QA process for your deep learning pipeline in practice stackoverflow.blog Deep learning models still need testing, but many of the common testing approaches don’t apply. With the right methods, you can still make sure your pipeline produces good results. Introducing Content Health, a new way to keep your knowledge base up-to-date stackoverflow.blog We’re thrilled to announce a new and foundational feature, Content Health, that intelligently identifies potentially outdated or inaccurate knowledge. Podcast 394: What if you could invest in your favorite developer? stackoverflow.blog Get your Benjamins before they blow up. [Free eBook] A Beginner’s Guide to Observability promotion In this eBook we’ll define what observability is and what it takes to achieve it. Learn how observability helps you tame complexity and reduce MTTR, as well as how to build observability into your application environment. Pay attention to the overall system, not each and every component of it. Interesting questions Efficient summation in Python stackoverflow.com Look for efficiencies in the summation formula, not in the code that calculates it. After a password leak, is there a Levenshtein distance from which one a newly derived password can be considered safe? security.stackexchange.com In this case, distancing isn’t a measure of how safe you are. Artificial intelligence and law law.stackexchange.com “Error is not always wrongdoing.” How did early computers handle mice? retrocomputing.stackexchange.com Real-time mouse tracking is overrated. Links from around the web The invisible JavaScript backdoor certitude.consulting Halloween is long gone, but that doesn’t mean spooky JavaScript went away! React 18 is now in beta github.com React 18 is officially in beta! This means that no new APIs will be added, and you can try it out now. When does a table become too big? connor-mcdonald.com What started as an interesting question from Angie Jones has turned into quite the conversation amongst developers: how do tables stand up to really, really large numbers? If-else or switch-case: Which one to pick? dev.to This is a wonderful beginner-friendly article about the differences between if/else statements versus switch statements, and when to use both! Onboard, organize, and bring your team up to speed in a jiffy. Try Stack Overflow for Teams. Tags: newsletter, the overflow The Stack Overflow Podcast is a weekly conversation about working in software development, learning to code, and the art and culture of computer programming. Related code-for-a-living November 15, 2021 Building a QA process for your deep learning pipeline in practice Deep learning models still need testing, but many of the common testing approaches don't apply. But with the right methods, you can still make sure your pipeline produces good results. Tobias Kupek Content Marketer newsletter May 7, 2021 The Overflow #72: From personal trainer to frontend mentor Welcome to ISSUE #72 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. Spring is in the air, and here’s what’s in this newsletter: our CEO talks about the changes we’re undertaking to thrive long term, tips on reverse engineering, and the many definitions… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams newsletter September 24, 2021 The Overflow #92: Mapping the path from engineer to manager Welcome to ISSUE #92 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: mapping the path from engineer to manager, looking to the stars for encryption, and improving the junior dev experience with seven VS Code extensions. From the blog Why your… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams newsletter June 4, 2021 The Overflow #76: The 2021 Dev Survey now open! Welcome to ISSUE #76 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. The new Developer Survey is here! But also: precise measurements using imprecise tools and a visual walkthrough of Kubernetes. From the blog The 2021 Developer Survey is now open! stackoverflow.blogWe want to… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ? This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram