The Overflow #100! Web3! .NET 6! We love numbers! - Stack Overflow Blog
The Overflow #100! Web3! .NET 6! We love numbers! - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company newsletter November 19, 2021 The Overflow #100! Web3! .NET 6! We love numbers! Welcome to ISSUE #100 of The Overflow! We think that’s a pretty big deal, but everyone using binary isn’t as impressed. This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: systematizing the interface design for 3D spaces, a quirk of document.all that shows up when… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams Welcome to ISSUE #100 of The Overflow! We think that’s a pretty big deal, but everyone using binary isn’t as impressed. This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: systematizing the interface design for 3D spaces, a quirk of document.all that shows up when TypeScript gets transpiled, and an analysis of over 400,000 of those little favicons on your browser tabs. From the blog Adapting a design system for the Metaverse stackoverflow.blog Design systems enable developers and designers to rapidly develop products that are consistent across all platforms. Does that include the Metaverse? Does ES6 make JavaScript frameworks obsolete? stackoverflow.blog Is ES6 the JavaScript release that will finally free us from the endless cycle of frameworks? Podcast 390: Web3 won’t save us stackoverflow.blog If we tear up the rules and build a new internet, how can we avoid making the same mistakes? eBook: 3 tips for building modern web and mobile apps faster promotion Learn how to go from concept to production in less than one month and with one engineer. Interesting questions Why does the TypeScript compiler compile its optional chaining and null-coalescing operators with two checks? stackoverflow.com You know when warranties say they are null and void? Two separate things. JavaScript agrees. Is driving an electric car any better than driving a conventional car if electricity is generated with fossil fuel? sustainability.stackexchange.com If you can’t be pure, then at least you can be more efficient. Why is it impossible for a program or AI to have semantic understanding? philosophy.stackexchange.com How do we know a human wrote this question? Why did the NES not allow rotated sprites? retrocomputing.stackexchange.com It’s a me! The limitations of how the NES stored sprites in memory! Wha-ooo! Links from around the web Announcing .NET 6 – The fastest .NET yet devblogs.microsoft.com .NET developers rejoice! C# 10 and .NET 6 are now available! React Router v6 remix.run Speaking of rejoicing, React developers rejoice! At long last, React Router v6 is out and rewritten from the ground up with hooks. We analyzed 425,909 favicons iconmap.io Who knew the tiny favicons at the top of your screen were such interesting pieces of technology? Native CSS nesting: What you need to know blog.logrocket.com Nesting CSS used to require preprocessors like LESS or SASS, but that’s all changing! Onboard, organize, and bring your team up to speed in a jiffy. Try Stack Overflow for Teams. Tags: newsletter, the overflow The Stack Overflow Podcast is a weekly conversation about working in software development, learning to code, and the art and culture of computer programming. Related code-for-a-living November 10, 2021 Does ES6 make JavaScript frameworks obsolete? Is ES6 the JavaScript release that will finally free us from the endless cycle of frameworks? Theodoros ‘Theo’ Karasavvas and Ryan Donovan newsletter October 8, 2021 The Overflow #94: Automate away boring standups Welcome to ISSUE #94 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: how our joke keyboard became real, how we see the light from distant stars, and why any productivity software will eventually be used to play games. From the blog… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams newsletter September 3, 2021 The Overflow #89: Passwords are dead! Welcome to ISSUE #89 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: visualize your engineering failures, connect to two ISPs at once, and theme your app in Flutter. From the blog You’re living in the Metaverse, you just don’t know it… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams newsletter July 16, 2021 The Overflow #82: Best practices for comments Welcome to ISSUE #82 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: why you should mentor others, does GPL apply to neural network models, and hacking the React AST. From the blog Best practices for writing code comments stackoverflow.blogWhile there are many… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ? This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram