The Overflow #99: These principles are still SOLID - Stack Overflow Blog
The Overflow #99: These principles are still SOLID - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company newsletter November 12, 2021 The Overflow #99: These principles are still SOLID Welcome to ISSUE #99 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: big problems for people who can’t solve small problems, the nerdiest argument over a Dungeons and Dragons roll, and using the golden ratio in user interface design. From the… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams Welcome to ISSUE #99 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: big problems for people who can’t solve small problems, the nerdiest argument over a Dungeons and Dragons roll, and using the golden ratio in user interface design. From the blog Why SOLID principles are still the foundation for modern software architecture stackoverflow.blog While computing has changed a lot in the 20 years since the SOLID principles were conceived, they are still the best practices for designing software. Our new and enhanced Microsoft Teams integration stackoverflow.blog With new features and tweaks to the Stack Overflow for Teams integration with Microsoft Teams, Version 2 will improve your productivity. This article provides additional context around the evolution of this integration and how it might be useful to your organization! Podcast 389: The big problem with only being able to solve big problems stackoverflow.blog Don’t forget the little springs that keep the big machine running. Modify document experiences with Adobe PDF Services API promotion In this virtual session, AWS, Adobe, and AFTIA share insights on the latest digital document trends and how you can build more engaging and integrated digital document experiences with APIs. Interesting questions High throughput Fizz Buzz codegolf.stackexchange.com The fastest Fizz Buzz in the west. Students answering more questions than allowed on exam academia.stackexchange.com If extra credit is not available, make it clear before the exam. Having a statistics argument over Dungeons & Dragons stats.stackexchange.com More like roll playing, right? How do we measure time? physics.stackexchange.com Aren’t all measurements just a comparison of two things anyway? Links from around the web A quick intro to Elm for React developers blog.theodo.com If you’ve been curious about functional programming, but also want to stick to your front-end development roots, Elm might be the language for you! Respecting users’ motion preferences www.smashingmagazine.com Accessibility covers a broad spectrum of things. The media query “prefers-reduced-motion” is a straightforward way to make your sites more accessible. The golden ratio and user-interface design www.nngroup.com The golden ratio: it’s not just for art anymore. Fast indoor 2D localization using ceiling lights www.a1k0n.net Localization via&#8230; ceiling lights? It’s unusual, and yet it works! Onboard, organize, and bring your team up to speed in a jiffy. Try Stack Overflow for Teams. Tags: newsletter, the overflow The Stack Overflow Podcast is a weekly conversation about working in software development, learning to code, and the art and culture of computer programming. Related company November 2, 2021 Our new and enhanced Microsoft Teams integration With new features and tweaks to the Stack Overflow for Teams integration with Microsoft Teams, we’re sure that the new and improved Version 2 will come in handy. This article provides additional context around the evolution of this integration and how it might be useful to your organization! Vasudha Swaminathan newsletter June 11, 2021 The Overflow #77: Stack Overflow’s exciting next chapter! Welcome to ISSUE #77 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. We’ll lead with the big news: Stack Overflow is getting acquired by Prosus; see our first item for more information. But wait, there’s more: being a team player when your team… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams newsletter July 9, 2021 The Overflow #81: Evolving product development at Stack Overflow Welcome to ISSUE #81 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This issue number, like me, is a perfect square. Here’s what you can geek out over this week: the user research behind our new Collectives product, how the ISS calculates the… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams newsletter October 22, 2021 The Overflow #96: A database built for a firehose Welcome to ISSUE #96 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: what drives growth in cybersecurity questions on Stack Overflow, teaching an AI to bid on properties in Monopoly, and every talk from Jamstack Conf 2021 in one handy playlist.… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ? This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram