The Overflow #98: Front end: JavaScript. Back end: Also JavaScript. - Stack Overflow Blog
The Overflow #98: Front end: JavaScript. Back end: Also JavaScript. - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company newsletter November 5, 2021 The Overflow #98: Front end: JavaScript. Back end: Also JavaScript. Welcome to ISSUE #98 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: the home team talks through their first ten years in programming, ways to cope with murderous wizards, and science goes too far by rendering DOOM via checkboxes. From the blog… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams Welcome to ISSUE #98 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: the home team talks through their first ten years in programming, ways to cope with murderous wizards, and science goes too far by rendering DOOM via checkboxes. From the blog Node.js makes fullstack programming easy with server-side JavaScript stackoverflow.blog Here’s why JavaScript became the language of choice for front-end and back-end web dev. Strong teams are more than just connected, they are communities stackoverflow.blog Organizations and leaders have a responsibility to ensure people are heard, to build high levels of trust, and to enable them to show up authentically so they can do their best work. Podcast 387: The first ten years of our programming lives stackoverflow.blog Everybody starts somewhere with coding, even if that’s just to make your favorite game better. Couchbase Capella database-as-a service. Try it free. promotion Capella DBaaS is flexible, full-featured and fully managed – with built-in access via K/V, SQL and full text search. It’s blazing fast, yet surprisingly affordable. Try Capella today for free. Interesting questions How do I stop annoyed wizards from killing people all the time? worldbuilding.stackexchange.com “The plural of wizard is war.” Endless sine generation in C stackoverflow.com Time is a flat circle, no wait, a repeating wave. What is the purpose of storing multiple lower resolution versions of the same original image? softwareengineering.stackexchange.com Might as well shrink them ahead of time in case the debigulator is on the fritz. Is it normal for a skilled data scientist to be considered a “Swiss knife” and be assigned everything but data science tasks? [Closed, but fun] workplace.stackexchange.com Have you tried doing your other tasks badly? Links from around the web Photoshop’s journey to the web web.dev Just a few years back, it would blow people’s minds to think software like Photoshop could run in the browser. We’re closer than ever to the browser acting a full fledged “operating system” for heavy duty apps.. Where does GraphQL fit In the stack? www.apollographql.com Front-end? Back-end? Middleware? Something else? GraphQL can live in various places, but where does it fit best? Why outdated jQuery is still the dominant JavaScript library thenewstack.io “A staggering 78% of the top one million websites use jQuery in some way.” What is dead may never die. DOOM rendered via checkboxes healeycodes.com Has science gone too far? Probably. Check out how someone painstakingly rendered DOOM with a friendly HTML element. Onboard, organize, and bring your team up to speed in a jiffy. Try Stack Overflow for Teams. Tags: newsletter, the overflow The Stack Overflow Podcast is a weekly conversation about working in software development, learning to code, and the art and culture of computer programming. Related code-for-a-living October 25, 2021 Node.js makes fullstack programming easy with server-side JavaScript Here's why JavaScript has been the language of choice for front-end and back-end web dev. Theodoros ‘Theo’ Karasavvas Content Marketer code-for-a-living May 5, 2021 Getting started with… TypeScript A look at how to get started with TypeScript. Medi Madelen Gwosdz Content Strategist - Former newsletter November 12, 2021 The Overflow #99: These principles are still SOLID Welcome to ISSUE #99 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: big problems for people who can’t solve small problems, the nerdiest argument over a Dungeons and Dragons roll, and using the golden ratio in user interface design. From the… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams code-for-a-living November 10, 2021 Does ES6 make JavaScript frameworks obsolete? Is ES6 the JavaScript release that will finally free us from the endless cycle of frameworks? Theodoros ‘Theo’ Karasavvas and Ryan Donovan 1 Comment mrangjunboon2017 says: 11 Nov 21 at 4:00 so cool! Reply Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ? This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram