The Stack Overflow Podcast
The Stack Overflow Podcast Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company The Stack Overflow Podcast The Stack Overflow podcast is a frank and funny conversation about what it means to work in software and how code is reshaping our world. As it celebrates its 12th anniversary, it’s a must listen for any programmer, as necessary as Stack Overflow itself. RSS Feed Apple Podcasts Google Podcasts Overcast SoundCloud Spotify podcast November 30, 2021 Podcast 396: Does modern parenting require spyware? Should developers build tools for parents to monitor every aspect of their children's digital lives? Ben Popper Director of Content podcast November 23, 2021 Podcast 395: Who is building clouds for the independent developer? Big enterprise clients looking for "lift and shift" are lucrative clients in the cloud market. But there are also millions of independent developers who need cloud tech at their scale. Ben Popper Director of Content podcast November 22, 2021 Who owns this outage? Building intelligent escalation chains for modern SRE Before your organization can resolve an issue, it has to figure out who is on deck to respond. Ben Popper Director of Content podcast November 19, 2021 Podcast 394: what if you could invest in your favorite developer? Get your Benjamins before they blow up. Ben Popper Director of Content podcast November 16, 2021 Podcast 393: 250 words per minute on a chorded keyboard? Only if you can think that fast. Can you type at the speed of thought? Ryan Donovan Content Marketer podcast November 12, 2021 Podcast 392: Do polyglots have an edge when it comes to mastering programming languages? French, Swahili, Perl, Danish, Spanish, and C#. Ryan Donovan Content Marketer podcast November 9, 2021 Podcast 391: Explaining the semiconductor shortage, and how it might end The problem is not that we've run out of sand. Ben Popper Director of Content podcast November 5, 2021 Podcast 390: Web3 won’t save us If we tear up the rules and build a new internet, how can we avoid making the same mistakes? Ben Popper Director of Content podcast November 2, 2021 Podcast 389: The big problem with only being able to solve big problems Don't forget the little springs that keep the big machine running. Ryan Donovan Content Marketer podcast October 29, 2021 Podcast 388: Software for your second brain While computers may let you down, music never does. Ryan Donovan Content Marketer partner-content October 27, 2021 A murder mystery: who killed our user experience? On this sponsored episode of the Stack Overflow Podcast, we talk with Greg Leffler of Splunk about the keys to instrumenting an observable system and how the OpenTelemetry standard allows you to avoid vendor lock in. Ryan Donovan Content Marketer Posts navigation 1 2 3 4 5 … 38 Next posts by author or Search for: © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram