Cassidy Williams
Cassidy Williams Cassidy Williams Software Engineer in Chicago twitter newsletter patreon timeline github codepen linkedin Short Long Speaker Hi there! My name is Cassidy and I'm a Director of Developer Experience at Netlify. I often make silly videos on the internet, plus I enjoy building mechanical keyboards, playing music, and teaching in my free time. Well hello there! My name is Cassidy and I'm a Director of Developer Experience at Netlify. Before now, I worked at React Training, CodePen, Amazon, L4 Digital, Clarifai, and Venmo, and graduated from Iowa State University. I run a weekly newsletter and love teaching and helping people become better coders! In my spare time, I love playing music, building mechanical keyboards and LEGO sets, and hanging out with my sister Cami. I also have a Patreon if you'd like to chat with me regularly (our Discord group is so active I can hardly keep up!), get resume reviews, schedule mock interviews with me, or just play video games. No pressure to join in, and I appreciate your support a ton no matter what! In terms of where I am on the internet (and off), you might have seen me in Glamour Magazine or the Big Dream documentary a few years back, or more recently you might have seen my Scrabble keyboard project in a couple dozen different publications! I also made a successfully funded Kickstarter project called Go: On the Go! to get people interested in playing the game Go. I've spoken at over a hundred events around the world, and have made online classes on Scrimba, Udemy, Skillshare, and moooore. I'll (likely) happily speak at your event or podcast, or do influencer work for your org. I have a speaker rider, if you'd like to talk to me about your event. Feel free to email me with details! Alright, since you've read this far, have a joke: Why are mountains so funny? Because they're hill areas. Cassidy is Director of Developer Experience at Netlify. She's worked for several other places, large and small, and she's had the honor of working with various non-profits, including cKeys and Hacker Fund as their Director of Outreach. She's active in the developer community, and one of Glamour Magazine's 35 Women Under 35 Changing the Tech Industry and LinkedIn's Top Professionals 35 & Under. As an avid speaker, Cassidy has participated in many events including the Grace Hopper Celebration for Women in Computing, TEDx, the United Nations, and hundreds of other technical events. She wants to inspire generations of STEM students to be the best they can be, and her favorite quote is from Helen Keller: "One can never consent to creep when one feels an impulse to soar." She loves mechanical keyboards and karaoke. Headshot