Senior Frontend Developer - Design accessible, user centred services for all! at UK Home Office - Stack Overflow
Senior Frontend Developer - Design accessible, user centred services for all! at UK Home Office  - Stack Overflow Stack Overflow About Products For Teams Stack Overflow Public questions & answers Stack Overflow for Teams Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers Jobs Programming & related technical career opportunities Talent Recruit tech talent & build your employer brand Advertising Reach developers & technologists worldwide About the company Loading… Log in Sign up current community Stack Overflow help chat Meta Stack Overflow your communities Sign up or log in to customize your list. more stack exchange communities company blog Home Public Questions Tags Users Collectives Explore Collectives Find a Job Jobs Companies Teams Stack Overflow for Teams – Collaborate and share knowledge with a private group. Create a free Team What is Teams? Teams Create free Team Collectives on Stack Overflow Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most. Learn more Teams Q&A for work Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search. Learn more Jobs Companies Why Jobs? Applications Developer Story You’ve submitted an application. View all your job applications in one central place. Senior Frontend Developer - Design accessible, user centred services for all! UK Home Office – London, UK £57k - 74k On-site and limited remote Save Save Share via email Share via Twitter Share via Facebook Report Dismiss Overview Company More Jobs React to this job: 0 0 0 Posted 14 hours ago About this job Job type: Full-time Experience level: Senior, Lead Role: Frontend Developer Industry: Agile Software Development, Government, Software Development / Engineering Company size: 1k-5k people Company type: Public Remote details Employer's note: We are offering a hybrid working model with 1-2 days per week in the office depending on your preference. Technologies reactjsjavascriptnode.jshtmlcss Job description Frontend development is a growing role within government, and it’s a vital one, as the work is focused on the parts of government that citizens interact with most often. The services we work on in the public sector are essential. Users have no alternative but to use services such as ‘Apply Online for a Passport’ Our services are essential for people so they can get on with their lives. Some of these systems are used by millions of people, which presents many interesting challenges! Because it’s what users interact with, the frontend has to be accessible, well-designed, intuitive for the user, and it has to perform well! What will you be doing as a Senior Developer at Home Office? You could be working with design teams and contributing to design systems like Home Office, Gov.uk and other common component sets. You’ll also have the opportunity to lead and drive teamwork for design and delivery of frontend features to meet user needs. Your key areas of impact develop user interfaces and contribute to web application creation efforts for our Operating System using modern web technologies craft responsive experiences using JavaScript, HTML/CSS that emphasize usability and best practices use agreed standards and specifications to design, create, test and document new software or make changes to existing software translate user stories and propose design approaches or services to meet user needs create accessible user interfaces, testing components and pages against accessibility standards. solve problems to improve performance using different sources of data to monitor and identify performance issues integrate and test user interfaces, systems and programme components work alongside backend developers to assist with API integration coding and troubleshooting as well as maintenance and enhancements being open minded and interested in exploring new approaches and technology Who you are You'll be a developer who is confident developing applications, passionate about making a difference and want to be involved throughout the product lifecycle, from idea generation, design, and prototyping to execution, and shipping whilst having experience with: Javascript and frameworks such as React, Angular, Vue.js and their respective ecosystems NodeJS as a server for web applications building responsive websites using Javascript / HTML / CSS and features of modern Web browsers package managers npm, yarn and webpack unit testing and TDD, and automated frontend (unit/component) testing leading and mentoring others in frontend architecture, technology choices, code quality, security, CI/CD pipelines Some of the benefits our developers love one of the higher starting salaries across the Civil Service a Civil Service pension with employer contribution rates of between 26.6% and 30.3%, depending upon salary 25 days annual leave on appointment, plus 8 days public holidays and 1 day for the Queen’s Birthday, rising further with service flexible working options to enable you to achieve the work life balance that right for you including part-time, flexi time and job sharing training and development opportunities tailored to your role an in-year bonus scheme a culture encouraging inclusion and diversity season ticket loans and rental deposit loans cycle to work and payroll giving employee discounts - including a huge number of retailers (via the Edenred platform), Microsoft Home Use programme and gym membership a variety of staff recognition schemes including thank you vouchers health and wellbeing initiatives including monthly mindfulness sessions staff support networks maternity, adoption or shared parental leave of up to 26 weeks full pay followed by 13 weeks of statutory pay and a further 13 weeks unpaid maternity and adoption support leave (paternity leave) of 2 weeks full pay up to 5 days paid leave for volunteering study leave and support for studying for a qualification or other accredited development relevant to your role About the company Logo provided by Crunchbase UK Home Office The Home Office is the lead government department for immigration and passports, drugs policy, crime, fire, counter-terrorism and police. Follow your favorite companies By selecting follow, you are opting in to receive an email digest from the companies you follow. Don't worry, your information isn't shared. Follow Follow your favorite companies By selecting follow, you are opting in to receive an email digest from the companies you follow. Don't worry, your information isn't shared. Follow Home Office DDaT develops and maintains over 500 services which have millions of users all over the world. We have some really exciting work going on, which is being executed in a user-focussed manner using industry leading cloud platforms: Building and maintaining wide variety of gov.uk services you may be familiar with, including getting married or forming a civil partnership or applying for a visa Ensuring that the application and delivery of passports is efficient - completing the build of our award-winning digital application system Re-developing core policing data systems to ensure they are effective and provide a solid basis for innovation Updating tools to ensure that our borders are efficient for both passengers and border officials Ensuring that we have a world-class immigration systems which is usable by all If you are looking for rapid paced greenfield development work, which is personally critical to users, then we would love to hear from you. Benefits 25 days annual leave, plus 8 days public holidays and 1 privilege day Civil Service pension (employer contribution rates between 26 - 30%) Flexible working, such as compressed hours and working from home Great development opportunities Interest free season ticket and bicycle loans Fitness centre and staff canteen (some locations only) Opportunity to work on Greenfield projects transforming Government Learn more about UK Home Office More jobs at UK Home Office View all ›› Okay, you won’t see this job anymore. Undo Senior Software Developer - Node.js | React | AWS | TDD | CI/CD UK Home Office • Manchester, UK javaamazon-web-servicesc#javascriptkubernetes 20d ago £52k–65k Limited remote Okay, you won’t see this job anymore. Undo Principal Developer - Build better digital services for all UK citizens UK Home Office • No office location javanode.jsjavascriptdockeramazon-web-services 14h ago £63k–89k Remote Okay, you won’t see this job anymore. Undo Senior Software Developer UK Home Office • Sheffield, UK javaamazon-web-servicesnode.jsjavascriptc# 16d ago £52k–65k Limited remote Okay, you won’t see this job anymore. Undo Senior Software Developer UK Home Office • Salford, UK javaamazon-web-servicesnode.jsjavascriptc# 23d ago £52k–65k Limited remote Okay, you won’t see this job anymore. Undo DevOps Engineer - Redefine how we build and deploy services for citizens UK Home Office • Croydon, UK amazon-web-servicesazuredockerkubernetesterraformsysadmin 14h ago Be one of the first applicants £42k–54k Limited remote Want to get notified about new jobs at UK Home Office? Create a company alert Your job search status has been updated. Are you looking for a job? When you create a Developer Story, we’ll accelerate your matches and get you in front of employers ASAP. Create a Developer Story Senior Frontend Developer - Design accessible, user centred services for all! at UK Home Office Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Help Mobile Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Service Contact Us Cookie Settings Cookie Policy Stack Exchange Network Technology Culture & recreation Life & arts Science Professional Business API Data Blog Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram site design / logo © 2021 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa. rev 2021.11.30.40849 Stack Overflow works best with JavaScript enabled Your privacy By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy. Accept all cookies Customize settings