The Overflow #97: Code quality is everyone's concern - Stack Overflow Blog
The Overflow #97: Code quality is everyone's concern - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company newsletter October 29, 2021 The Overflow #97: Code quality is everyone’s concern Welcome to ISSUE #97 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: why hooks changed the React game, how to preview a short link without clicking through, and politicians who think viewing source is being a hacker. From the blog Code quality:… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams Welcome to ISSUE #97 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: why hooks changed the React game, how to preview a short link without clicking through, and politicians who think viewing source is being a hacker. From the blog Code quality: a concern for businesses, bottom lines, and empathetic programmers stackoverflow.blog Code quality affects the mental state of a programmer, communication within their team, and the incentives attached to their work. Improving your code can boost organizational health and business goals at the same time. Why hooks are the best thing to happen to React stackoverflow.blog Early React mainly used class components, forcing developers to switch between classes, higher-order components, and render props. With the introduction of React hooks, you can use functional components to accomplish the same work without the switching. Podcast 385: Getting your first job off the CSS mailing list stackoverflow.blog Paul Ford and Sara Chipps are back! We talk Dot-Com jobs and working at massive scale. Like, you’re crafting the color of the button on the component of the feature for the platform, m’kay. 7 Considerations When Evaluating NoSQL promotion There are multiple types of NoSQL databases to consider, but which one is right for your environment? In this free MongoDB guide, explore the differences between the most common non-relational databases: graph, key-value, wide-column, and documents. Interesting questions Petrification at low levels rpg.stackexchange.com Perseus need three gifts from the gods to beat Medusa and you want to throw newbies at it? Is there any reason why /proc/*/cmdline is world-readable? unix.stackexchange.com Maybe they wanted the world to know how many times you’ve checked out the cURL man page. Is this Scrabble board valid? codegolf.stackexchange.com The quickest way to prove that kwijibo is a valid word. Can I safely preview a short link? security.stackexchange.com Smaller does not equal safer. Links from around the web Smart CSS solutions for common UI challenges www.smashingmagazine.com Common user interface issues crop up over and over. Here’s a nice collection of modern solutions for frequent problems. Missouri governor vows criminal prosecution of reporter who found flaw in state website missouriindependent.com Who among us has not committed the crime of inspecting the elements? Hide popups when the user scrolls away with React javascript.plainenglish.io Popups can ruin user experiences, so it’s good to learn how to hide them when necessary. The undocumented Microsoft “rich” header bytepointer.com Check out this strange, undocumented header that exists only in Microsoft-produced executables. It’s been there for years and years. What could it mean? Onboard, organize, and bring your team up to speed in a jiffy. Try Stack Overflow for Teams. Tags: newsletter, the overflow The Stack Overflow Podcast is a weekly conversation about working in software development, learning to code, and the art and culture of computer programming. Related code-for-a-living October 20, 2021 Why hooks are the best thing to happen to React Originally, React mainly used class components, which can be strenuous at times as you always had to switch between classes, higher-order components, and render props. With React hooks, you can now do all these without switching, using functional components. Doro Onome Content Marketer newsletter July 16, 2021 The Overflow #82: Best practices for comments Welcome to ISSUE #82 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: why you should mentor others, does GPL apply to neural network models, and hacking the React AST. From the blog Best practices for writing code comments stackoverflow.blogWhile there are many… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams newsletter August 6, 2021 The Overflow #84 and 85: How Dwarf Fortress is built After two decades of crafting code, even solo developers need good comments to understand what they wrote in the first place. Ben Popper Director of Content newsletter September 17, 2021 The Overflow #91: Observability is the future (of your DevOps career) Welcome to ISSUE #91 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: scaling front-end design with a system, helping fighter jets score hits with radar, and ignoring the front-end development scene without missing a beat. From the blog Scaling front end… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ? This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram