Netlify: Develop & deploy the best web experiences in record time
Netlify: Develop & deploy the best web experiences in record time Netlify logotype Netlify raises $105M Series D to build a better web. We are hiring! Join our mission. Home Skip to content Menu Search Platform The Netlify Platform Explore how it works Instantly build and deploy your sites to our global network from Git. Custom domains, HTTPS, deploy previews, rollbacks, and much more. Netlify Build Netlify Edge Netlify Functions Netlify Workflow Key Features Deploy PreviewsNew Split Testing Forms Identity Analytics Security Build Plugins Technologies Jamstack React Next.js Vue.js Svelte Gatsby Angular Sitecore Drupal WordPress Pricing Enterprise Netlify Enterprise Enterprise Overview High-Performance Edge Customers Resources Enterprise Whitepaper Security at Netlify Enterprise Technology Partners Agency Partner Program AWS Marketplace Solutions E-commerce Web Applications Large Sites For Startups What others have built Case Study Canada's largest grocer delivers sites 10x faster, while saving money 92% Better Performance $38k Monthly Cost Savings View Case Study Jamstack Jamstack Architecture Jamstack Introduction Jamstack Book Jamstack Conf Community Netlify Community Blog Community Hub Support Forums Jamstack Explorers Remotely Interesting Podcast Swag Store Docs Search Contact sales Log in Sign up Build, deploy, & scale modern web projects Millions of developers use Netlify to ship faster, simplify their workflows, and scale effortlessly. Get started for free Contact sales The move to the Jamstack was about speed, accessibility, and taking the worry out of deployment.” James Luscombe, Technology Director First-class support for every popular framework Jamstack React Next.js Vue Angular Gatsby Nuxt Eleventy Svelte Hugo Astro Ember.js The platform built for scale New enterprise offerings make Netlify *the* choice for teams running modern web projects at scale. New Enterprise Grid plan, featuring multi-team governance New Jira integration for Collaborative Deploy Previews Analyze Netlify logs in Datadog with new log management integrations Netlify is now available for purchase through the AWS Marketplace Learn more Netlify teams 5 members Marketing team /500 GB 123 GB Bandwidth used 5 members Documentation team /500 GB 567 GB Bandwidth used 10 members Product team /500 GB 305 GB Bandwidth used Teams Teams that are linked to your Organization Server less, do more Give your sites the edge Create amazing experiences for the web in record time—without thinking once about servers or devops. The fastest possible web frontends Programmable Edge New Arrivals Instant cloud-scale backend apis Serverless Functions Los Angeles Dallas London Tokyo 1. Connect your repository Netlify detects the changes to push to Git and triggers automated deploys. 2. Add your build settings Netlify provides you a powerful and totally customizable build environment. yarn build 3. Deploy your website Publishing is seamless with instant cache invalidation and atomic deploys. Site is live ? Get started in seconds Questions? Talk to an expert Build the sites you want with the tools you love Build an e-commerce site with Next.js, Contentful, and Netlify Build web applications with Angular, Fauna, and Netlify Create an e-commerce site with Vue, Shopify, and Netlify Author online docs with Eleventy, Markdown, and Netlify Launch global campaigns with Gatsby, Sanity, and Netlify Build a conference site with React, Airtable, and Netlify Launch your own project The most comprehensive platform for web projects Deploy & Collaborate With just seconds of setup, the Netlify platform provides teams everything to take modern web projects from the first preview to full production Integrations & Serverless Trigger automated deploys, integrate dozens of third-party services, and easily create serverless APIs Plugins & Customization Use any of your favorite site generators, build technologies, or frameworks. Plugins add even more features to the build process and you can even write your own Ship fast. Ship better. The team workflow that makes teamwork flow Deployment? Done — with best practices baked right in Built-in CI/CD Domains & DNS management Automated previews of every commit It’s designed to work together as part of a seamless Git-based developer workflow. Add to cart Light Roast bb1147f https://newstore-branch--www.jamjava.com Deploy preview for www ready!Built with commit netlify BOT commented 3 hours ago Netlify automatically adds preview links right in Github Get an instant backend for any form by adding the Netlify attribute <form name="profile" data-netlify="true"> <h1>Create profile</h1> a Create profile Send new submissions to a Slack channel Slack integration Send new submissions as POST request Outgoing webhook Send new submissions via email Email notification Add notification Add dynamic functionality with built?in applications With very little coding or setup, Netlify makes it easy to add features like: User identity Serverless functions Instant forms Split testing & rollouts Analytics Large media Customize your projects with your own build tools or microservices Netlify discovers and installs your project dependencies and allows you to write powerful plugins that hook into any stage of the build process. Explore build plugins or create your own module.exports = () => { return { name: "netlify-plugin-image-optim", onPostBuild: async config => { const files = {}; Optimize images during your builds Image optim plugin Analyze & optimize your web fonts usage Subfont plugin Notify and stop build if a11y checks fails A11y plugin Use build plugins from the community or create your own Page title Page settings Site settings Page Content There are many easy ways to integrate headless CMS options Connect the entire Jamstack ecosystem to build apps faster Use hosted API services to provide advanced functionality for your applications in record time, with no new infrastructure to manage. It’s superpowers for frontend teams. Explore Jamstack architecture Moving all LiveChat websites to Netlify has empowered our Web Dev Team to iterate fast and independently. — Maciej Malesa, CTO, LiveChat Read more stories Don’t just take our word for it Ready to try Netlify? Get started for free Questions? Talk to an expert Vuejs.org is now powered by @Netlify with a free open source team plan. Really really impressive and smooth deployment experience. Evan You @youyuxi I think @netlify might just be the very best SaaS app I have ever had the privilege to use. It is just *amazing*. Emma Barnes @has_many_books Just migrated a few SPAs to @Netlify. Literally impossible to make the process any easier. Super impressive ?? Jared Truscott @TruJared Gotta say, @Netlify has gotten really good. Great for hosting PWAs/static sites. So many powerful free features! Henrik Joreteg @HenrikJoreteg I just took @Netlify out for the first time and it's nuts: CI/CD, forms, split testing are supported out of the box. Lambda functions are in beta. Steve Kinney @stevekinney just migrated my @GoHugoIO blog from github pages to @Netlify. Totally hassle free. @letsencrypt certificate in 1 click. One word: ?? Alessandro Baffa @alebaffa Home Stay up to date with all Jamstack & Netlify news Email address Subscribe Why Netlify Customers Enterprise Resources Agency Partner Program Products Platform Netlify Build Netlify Edge Netlify Dev Pricing Add-ons Analytics Functions Identity Forms Large Media Learn Docs Open Source Jamstack book Community Security Site Speed Test Technologies Jamstack Vue.js Gatsby Angular Next.js Sitecore Drupal WordPress Contact us Sales Support Status Forums Company Blog About Careers Press Jamstack Fund Netlify Store Sustainability © 2021 Netlify Twitter GitHub Community YouTube Jamstack What is Jamstack? Who is using Jamstack? Jamstack for ecommerce Jamstack book Jamstack radio Jamstack conference Jamstack community Deployment How to deploy Vue.js applications to the web How to prerender content for the web Deploying a single page application What is a CDN? Structured Redirects and Headers What is an edge service provider? A/B testing on Static Sites Split testing for private features Deploy websites from Git Continuous Deployment Deploy tools: deployed branches Deploy tools: locked deploys Deploy tools: drag n drop/manual deploys Custom domains Wordpress Migration Serverless What is a serverless website? What are serverless functions? Serverless Functions and Lambda Netlify Functions What are microservices? Identity APIs Ecommerce APIs Express.js with Serverless Functions Guide: How to Create an API with AWS Development Versioning and Rollbacks Continuous integration and deployment Build tools Markup and Static Site Generators What are static site generators? Deploy a static site Compare best static site generators Performance Post processing Minification Caching Images and performance Terms Privacy GDPR/CCPA DMCA Abuse Search Back to top Search for: