Podcast 385: Getting your first job off the CSS mailing list - Stack Overflow Blog
Podcast 385: Getting your first job off the CSS mailing list - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company podcast October 19, 2021 Podcast 385: Getting your first job off the CSS mailing list You're crafting the color of the button on the component of the feature for the platform, m'kay. Ben Popper Director of Content It’s a reunion episode featuring a Stack Overflow classic crew: Ben Popper, director of content at Stack Overflow, Paul Ford, co-founder of Postlight, and Sara Chipps, engineering manager for Flagship architecture at LinkedIn. We talk about Paul getting his first job in software from a footer note on the CSS mailing list. Later we chat about Sara’s experience going from a company with hundreds of engineers, to one with thousands. Episode Notes At LinkedIn scale, it pays to save your developers a few minutes or even seconds, on repeat tasks. Sara walks us through her experience managing senior engineers, and trying to improve developer experience and tooling, on a massive, global platform with over a billion user interactions a month. Paul shares some of his firm’s latest work, helping to visualize the impact of climate change at Probable Futures. Interested in doing work in software focused on climate change? Paul recommends you learn a bit about NetCDF files. Follow Sara on Twitter here. Follow Paul on Twitter here. Enjoy our brain teaser of the week: a new way to cut pizza. TRANSCRIPT Tags: the stack overflow podcast Related podcast July 6, 2021 Podcast 354: Building for AR with Niantic Labs’ augmented reality SDK From catching Pokemon to purchasing furniture, augmented reality is becoming increasingly common on mobile apps. Ben Popper Director of Content podcast July 27, 2021 Podcast 361: Why startups should use Kubernetes from day one We explore Stack Overflow's journey into the world of Kubernetes and containers with one of our software engineers, Max Horstmann. Ben Popper Director of Content code-for-a-living June 21, 2021 Can InnerSource bring open source practices to closed corporate bureaucracies? Open source won. Now, the OSS way of working is making inroads into new territories: the corporate engineering department. Ryan Donovan Content Marketer podcast June 29, 2021 Podcast 352: How product development at Stack Overflow has evolved We chat with Adam Lear, staff software engineer at Stack Overflow, about the evolution of our company's approach to product development over the last decade. Ben Popper Director of Content Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ? This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram