the overflow Archives - Stack Overflow Blog
the overflow Archives - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company newsletter November 26, 2021 The Overflow #101: Invest in your favorite developer Welcome to ISSUE #101 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: QA for deep learning pipelines, getting efficient with summation formulas, and finding the point where a table is too big. From the blog Building a QA process for your… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams newsletter November 19, 2021 The Overflow #100! Web3! .NET 6! We love numbers! Welcome to ISSUE #100 of The Overflow! We think that’s a pretty big deal, but everyone using binary isn’t as impressed. This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: systematizing the interface design for 3D spaces, a quirk of document.all that shows up when… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams newsletter November 12, 2021 The Overflow #99: These principles are still SOLID Welcome to ISSUE #99 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: big problems for people who can’t solve small problems, the nerdiest argument over a Dungeons and Dragons roll, and using the golden ratio in user interface design. From the… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams newsletter November 5, 2021 The Overflow #98: Front end: JavaScript. Back end: Also JavaScript. Welcome to ISSUE #98 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: the home team talks through their first ten years in programming, ways to cope with murderous wizards, and science goes too far by rendering DOOM via checkboxes. From the blog… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams newsletter October 29, 2021 The Overflow #97: Code quality is everyone’s concern Welcome to ISSUE #97 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: why hooks changed the React game, how to preview a short link without clicking through, and politicians who think viewing source is being a hacker. From the blog Code quality:… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams newsletter October 22, 2021 The Overflow #96: A database built for a firehose Welcome to ISSUE #96 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: what drives growth in cybersecurity questions on Stack Overflow, teaching an AI to bid on properties in Monopoly, and every talk from Jamstack Conf 2021 in one handy playlist.… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams newsletter October 15, 2021 The Overflow #95: Image search, but for any object IRL Welcome to ISSUE #95 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: the best practices for REST API auth, a physics lesson with air conditioners, and the wonders of the CSS Paint API. From the blog Extracting text from any file… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams newsletter October 8, 2021 The Overflow #94: Automate away boring standups Welcome to ISSUE #94 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: how our joke keyboard became real, how we see the light from distant stars, and why any productivity software will eventually be used to play games. From the blog… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams newsletter October 1, 2021 The Overflow #93: No joke—you can buy our copy/paste keyboard right now Welcome to ISSUE #93 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: the math and code of Dwarf Fortress, computer games in Star Trek, and alternative ways to manage state in React applications. From the blog The Loop: Our Community department… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams newsletter September 24, 2021 The Overflow #92: Mapping the path from engineer to manager Welcome to ISSUE #92 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: mapping the path from engineer to manager, looking to the stars for encryption, and improving the junior dev experience with seven VS Code extensions. From the blog Why your… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams newsletter September 17, 2021 The Overflow #91: Observability is the future (of your DevOps career) Welcome to ISSUE #91 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: scaling front-end design with a system, helping fighter jets score hits with radar, and ignoring the front-end development scene without missing a beat. From the blog Scaling front end… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams Posts navigation 1 2 3 4 5 … 9 Next posts by author or Search for: © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram