The Overflow #82: Best practices for comments - Stack Overflow Blog
The Overflow #82: Best practices for comments - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company newsletter July 16, 2021 The Overflow #82: Best practices for comments Welcome to ISSUE #82 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: why you should mentor others, does GPL apply to neural network models, and hacking the React AST. From the blog Best practices for writing code comments stackoverflow.blogWhile there are many… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams Welcome to ISSUE #82 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: why you should mentor others, does GPL apply to neural network models, and hacking the React AST. From the blog Best practices for writing code comments stackoverflow.blog While there are many resources to help programmers write better code, there are few for writing better comments. Here are some rules on how to leave great guidance alongside your code. The unexpected benefits of mentoring others stackoverflow.blog At some point in your career, you may seek out a mentor. Less well known are the benefits of becoming a mentor yourself. The Stack Overflow Podcast 354: Building for AR with Niantic Labs’ augmented reality SDK stackoverflow.blog From catching Pokemon to purchasing furniture, augmented reality is becoming increasingly common on mobile apps. Passionate About DevOps? Attend GitLab Commit Aug. 3-4, 2021 promotion Join us for free! GitLab Commit showcases how software professionals iterate to spark transformation, innovation, and collaboration. During this 2-day conference, attendees learn practical techniques and useful insights to implement at their orgs. Interesting questions Why was ‘…’ chosen for characters, and “…” for strings? retrocomputing.stackexchange.com In the alphabet and in programming languages, C comes after B. Why is Promise.then called twice in a React component but not the console.log? stackoverflow.com A case of over promising and under delivering? How does GPL apply to neural network models? opensource.stackexchange.com If GPL is a license for code, do neural network models count as code? What happens to an electron if given quantized energy to jump to a full orbital? physics.stackexchange.com Like the long suffering junior dev, electrons have a hard time getting promoted. Links from around the web How to help developers work in the flow dev.to We’ve all been “in the zone” at one point or another. Here’s an excellent deep dive (with some great quotes from Stack Overflow co-founder Joel Spolsky) about getting into that “flow state” and what might get us out of it, as well. Building a responsive layout with CSS grid and container queries! w/ Stephanie Eckles www.youtube.com Steph Eckles walks us through building a layout that starts as a grid and groooows into something pretty dang cool. Hacking the React AST for fun and profit swizec.com This author cleverly hacks his own paywall to illustrate how to work with React’s Abstract Syntax Tree! A look at building with Astro css-tricks.com Astro is the new kid on the block in terms of JavaScript frameworks, but it does one weird trick: it doesn’t actually ship JavaScript by default. Whaaat? Onboard, organize, and bring your team up to speed in a jiffy. Try Stack Overflow for Teams. Tags: newsletter, the overflow The Stack Overflow Podcast is a weekly conversation about working in software development, learning to code, and the art and culture of computer programming. Related code-for-a-living July 7, 2021 The unexpected benefits of mentoring others At some point in your career, you may well be advised to seek out a mentor. However, the benefits of being a mentor are often overlooked. Matt Studdert Content Marketer newsletter June 25, 2021 The Overflow #79: Zoom! Enhance! Super resolution! Welcome to ISSUE #79 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: machine learning makes 480p into 1080p, stairs and their effect on potential energy, and how open source affects build vs. buy decisions. From the blog Zoom, enhance. There! We… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams code-for-a-living June 21, 2021 Can InnerSource bring open source practices to closed corporate bureaucracies? Open source won. Now, the OSS way of working is making inroads into new territories: the corporate engineering department. Ryan Donovan Content Marketer newsletter May 7, 2021 The Overflow #72: From personal trainer to frontend mentor Welcome to ISSUE #72 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. Spring is in the air, and here’s what’s in this newsletter: our CEO talks about the changes we’re undertaking to thrive long term, tips on reverse engineering, and the many definitions… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ? This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram