The Overflow #84 and 85: How Dwarf Fortress is built - Stack Overflow Blog
The Overflow #84 and 85: How Dwarf Fortress is built - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company newsletter August 6, 2021 The Overflow #84 and 85: How Dwarf Fortress is built After two decades of crafting code, even solo developers need good comments to understand what they wrote in the first place. Ben Popper Director of Content Welcome to ISSUE #84 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: building on Kubernetes from day one, an AI that writes your code, and tips for improving your React architecture. From the blog Why you should build on Kubernetes from day one. stackoverflow.blog It’s less effort to set up than you think and pays big dividends if you need to scale when the product matures. Privacy is an afterthought in the software lifecycle. That needs to change. stackoverflow.blog The key to combining privacy and innovation is baking it into the SDLC. Podcast 358: An AI that writes code for you? We put Github Copilot to the test. stackoverflow.blog Can’t remember that regex? Meet your new best friend. The most important tips to monetize your apps. promotion This app developer resource from MoPub provides A to Z knowledge to monetize your apps: how to choose from various monetization models, the difference between SDKs and APIs, how to set up header bidding, best practices, and more. Interesting questions How to avoid the “local elevator” problem? ux.stackexchange.com With user prompts, it helps to be specific. Is there a word in a dead language that we lost the definition to? linguistics.stackexchange.com It’s right on the tip of my tongue&#8230; What’s the origin of terminating strings by setting the high bit of the last character? retrocomputing.stackexchange.com This is a “bit” overkill. How do I “apologize” to my cat? pets.stackexchange.com Sometimes you want to say sorry for your meowstake. Links from around the web Ever wondered if your React applications could be better architected? github.com Here’s an opinionated guide with a lot of suggestions. Meet the new Android game development kit. android-developers.googleblog.com It’s a great time to be a game developer, especially on mobile! Ever wonder about the future of the web? www.hazem.cool An interesting perspective on where we are headed. Get ready for immersive apps that feel native across a range of platforms. Cut the size of your images in half. jakearchibald.com If you cater your images to high density screens, chances are you’ll be serving more of your users, better. Onboard, organize, and bring your team up to speed in a jiffy. Try Stack Overflow for Teams. Welcome to ISSUE #85 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: we dig into the epic codebase behind Dwarf Fortress, explain how we built Collectives, and share our Q3 community roadmap. From the blog 700,000 lines of code, 20 years, and one developer: How Dwarf Fortress is built stackoverflow.blog After two decades of crafting code, even solo developers need good comments to understand what they wrote in the first place. Podcast 362: Exploring encryption with the founder of Very Good Security stackoverflow.blog We dig into discrete mathematics, differential privacy, and homomorphic encryption. The Loop: Our Community & Public Platform Roadmap for Q3 2021 stackoverflow.blog We have a new VP of Community and a lot of ambitious plans for updating and improving our public platform. HealthCare Locator: An open-source SDK for Healthcare apps promotion Creating health apps just got easier. Tap into the world’s leading HealthCare provider database, add HCP names, locations & specialty information with pre-built search & map display screens and admin tools for layout customization. Interesting questions How do you pronounce URL? english.stackexchange.com All hail the earl of URL! What is meant by the “Ubuntu kernel”? askubuntu.com Using the same recipe doesn’t mean the cake tastes the same in the end. How is data transferred between devices? physics.stackexchange.com It’s not the position, it’s the pattern. Links from around the web Explore what’s possible with Yarn 3.0 dev.to Yarn 3 is here with new plugin APIs, support for all kinds of new things, and more! Separation of concerns with React hooks felixgerschau.com It’s always good to have a well-thought-out separation of concerns in your programs, and here’s how you can approach that with custom React hooks! Celebrating 25 years of the Internet Archive blog.archive.org We’ve got snapshots of the web from a quarter century! Step into the world of Windows 96 windows96.net Time to dust off the box of floppy disks, and get transported to a simpler time in computing with this web version of Windows 96! Onboard, organize, and bring your team up to speed in a jiffy. Try Stack Overflow for Teams. Tags: the overflow The Stack Overflow Podcast is a weekly conversation about working in software development, learning to code, and the art and culture of computer programming. Related code-for-a-living July 21, 2021 Why you should build on Kubernetes from day one If you’re building a new app today, it might be worth taking a closer look at making it cloud-native and using Kubernetes from the jump. The effort to set up Kubernetes is less than you think. Certainly, it’s less than the effort it would take to refactor your app later on to support containerization. Max Horstmann newsletter August 20, 2021 The Overflow #87: Advance your developer career by writing Welcome to ISSUE #87 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: we bought some weird domain names, found creative ways to kill flies, and designed a swanky initial drop caps using CSS. From the blog How writing can advance your… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams newsletter October 22, 2021 The Overflow #96: A database built for a firehose Welcome to ISSUE #96 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: what drives growth in cybersecurity questions on Stack Overflow, teaching an AI to bid on properties in Monopoly, and every talk from Jamstack Conf 2021 in one handy playlist.… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams newsletter October 1, 2021 The Overflow #93: No joke—you can buy our copy/paste keyboard right now Welcome to ISSUE #93 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: the math and code of Dwarf Fortress, computer games in Star Trek, and alternative ways to manage state in React applications. From the blog The Loop: Our Community department… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ? This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram