The Overflow #91: Observability is the future (of your DevOps career) - Stack Overflow Blog
The Overflow #91: Observability is the future (of your DevOps career) - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company newsletter September 17, 2021 The Overflow #91: Observability is the future (of your DevOps career) Welcome to ISSUE #91 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: scaling front-end design with a system, helping fighter jets score hits with radar, and ignoring the front-end development scene without missing a beat. From the blog Scaling front end… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams Welcome to ISSUE #91 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: scaling front-end design with a system, helping fighter jets score hits with radar, and ignoring the front-end development scene without missing a beat. From the blog Scaling front end design with a design system stackoverflow.blog Building the same UI components over and over? There is a better way. Observability is key to the future of software (and your DevOps career) stackoverflow.blog Observability platforms enable you to easily figure out what’s happening with every request and to identify the cause of issues fast. It’s a valuable skill to have, even if it’s not your full time career. Podcast 373: Authorization is complex. Oso is a library designed to help you structure it. stackoverflow.blog What if it was as easy to add authorization logic to your app as it was to add user authentication? How to use low-code to accelerate application development promotion Join experts from DevOps Institute and AWS in this webinar to explore low-code development, best-fit use cases, practical tools for developers and how to achieve your application delivery goals with AWS. Interesting questions Using LINQ to generate prime numbers stackoverflow.com Want to ace your next technical interview? Thanks to Shujaat Hussain for the heads up! How is radar used to help aiming a gun on fighter jets? aviation.stackexchange.com Radar can get you a whole bunch of information that your eyeballs just can’t. Why are optical disc drives slower than hard disk drives? superuser.com It’s probably because you keep putting your fingers on the DVD. Why can PPPoE connect to a gateway which is not in the same subnet? networkengineering.stackexchange.com The clue to the answer is in the name of the protocol: PPP over Ethernet. Links from around the web Vector? Raster? Why not both! www.zachleat.com Sometimes it’s hard to decide if you want to use a vector, like an SVG, or a raster, like a PNG&#8230; what if you didn’t have to choose just one? A Guide to React Context and useContext() Hook dmitripavlutin.com When you’re building React apps, folks often think that you have to use the Context API to share state. It’s optional, and this guide dives into both good and bad use cases. I completely ignored the front end development scene for six months. It was fine rachsmith.com In tech, we think we have to stay on top of everything, or we’ll become irrelevant. That is not the case! Rach Smith makes some great points here if you ever are worried about keeping up. Facebook’s Golang object relational mapper moves to the Linux Foundation thenewstack.io If you love something, let it Go. Facebook’s Go entity framework Ent has moved to the Linux Foundation! Onboard, organize, and bring your team up to speed in a jiffy. Try Stack Overflow for Teams. Tags: newsletter, the overflow The Stack Overflow Podcast is a weekly conversation about working in software development, learning to code, and the art and culture of computer programming. Related code-for-a-living September 8, 2021 Observability is key to the future of software (and your DevOps career) Observability platforms enable you to easily figure out what’s happening with every request and to identify the cause of issues fast. Learning the principles of observability and OpenTelemetry will set you apart from the crowd and provide you with a skill set that will be in increasing demand as more companies perform cloud migrations. Greg Leffler Content Marketer newsletter August 20, 2021 The Overflow #87: Advance your developer career by writing Welcome to ISSUE #87 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: we bought some weird domain names, found creative ways to kill flies, and designed a swanky initial drop caps using CSS. From the blog How writing can advance your… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams newsletter June 11, 2021 The Overflow #77: Stack Overflow’s exciting next chapter! Welcome to ISSUE #77 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. We’ll lead with the big news: Stack Overflow is getting acquired by Prosus; see our first item for more information. But wait, there’s more: being a team player when your team… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams newsletter November 12, 2021 The Overflow #99: These principles are still SOLID Welcome to ISSUE #99 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: big problems for people who can’t solve small problems, the nerdiest argument over a Dungeons and Dragons roll, and using the golden ratio in user interface design. From the… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ? This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram