The Overflow #96: A database built for a firehose - Stack Overflow Blog
The Overflow #96: A database built for a firehose - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company newsletter October 22, 2021 The Overflow #96: A database built for a firehose Welcome to ISSUE #96 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: what drives growth in cybersecurity questions on Stack Overflow, teaching an AI to bid on properties in Monopoly, and every talk from Jamstack Conf 2021 in one handy playlist.… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams Welcome to ISSUE #96 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: what drives growth in cybersecurity questions on Stack Overflow, teaching an AI to bid on properties in Monopoly, and every talk from Jamstack Conf 2021 in one handy playlist. From the blog Shift to remote work prompted more cybersecurity questions than any breach stackoverflow.blog For this edition of Stack Overflow Knows, we did a deep dive into cybersecurity topics across Stack Overflow and Stack Exchange. We found a few key drivers of interest in security, and a shift in the way developers are acting, versus reacting, to emerging threats. Why solve a problem twice? Design patterns let you apply existing solutions to your code stackoverflow.blog Software design patterns are like best practices employed by many experienced software developers. You can use design patterns to make your application scalable and flexible. Podcast 383: A database built for a firehose stackoverflow.blog In this episode, we chat with Stephen Goldberg and Kyle Bernhardy from HarperDB. Their startup was born from working with the firehose of Twitter data during sporting events, and now they have a database designed to scale well for real-time data. Continuous Delivery for Cloud-Native Applications promotion Join DevOps Institute and AWS to learn how to free developers to be creative and agile with cloud-native technologies like Kubernetes and serverless to support the speed of business today. Interesting questions A new way to cut a pizza puzzling.stackexchange.com Can you get a dozen identical slices out of a single pizza without the traditional triangle? Why do rain drops fall with a constant velocity? physics.stackexchange.com Raindrop keep falling on my head… without accelerating. AI for auction bids in the Monopoly game gamedev.stackexchange.com Wait, does anybody actually use the action rule in Monopoly? Why are protons in the nucleus of an atom, not electrons? physics.stackexchange.com Is the electron always doomed to be an outsider? Links from around the web Jamstack Conf 2021 www.youtube.com All of the talks from this month’s Jamstack Conf are now online! It’s an exciting time in web development, and the presentations do not disappoint. What is Google’s Dev Library––a new open-source platform for developers developers.googleblog.com Google released a new space for developers to share and promote their open source repositories and blog posts, which should be an interesting opportunity! Big O notation as a mid-level developer who has been avoiding it since bootcamp: arrays and time complexity dev.to If you’ve wanted to more deeply understand arrays and time complexity, here’s a great rundown of what you need to know, with a little help from Pokémon. The case for ‘developer experience’ future.a16z.com We love the idea of perfectly maintained tech stacks, but unfortunately that just isn’t often the case. Here’s a good take on developer experience in the messy code we deal with. Onboard, organize, and bring your team up to speed in a jiffy. Try Stack Overflow for Teams. Tags: newsletter, the overflow The Stack Overflow Podcast is a weekly conversation about working in software development, learning to code, and the art and culture of computer programming. Related newsletter September 10, 2021 The Overflow #90: A patent on a time machine Welcome to ISSUE #90 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: we surveyed cloud adoption during the pandemic, what to do if your 40 hours a week job needs 80 hours, and why hyperlinks are blue. From the blog Pandemic… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams stackoverflowknows October 11, 2021 Shift to remote work prompted more cybersecurity questions than any breach For this edition of Stack Overflow Knows, we did a deep dive into cybersecurity topics across Stack Overflow and Stack Exchange sites to spotlight trends and reflect on how conversations are evolving within the developer and technical community. David Gibson Senior Data Analyst newsletter August 6, 2021 The Overflow #84 and 85: How Dwarf Fortress is built After two decades of crafting code, even solo developers need good comments to understand what they wrote in the first place. Ben Popper Director of Content newsletter June 11, 2021 The Overflow #77: Stack Overflow’s exciting next chapter! Welcome to ISSUE #77 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. We’ll lead with the big news: Stack Overflow is getting acquired by Prosus; see our first item for more information. But wait, there’s more: being a team player when your team… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams 1 Comment Avi Perl says: 22 Oct 21 at 9:20 Looks like the Google dev blog [https://developers.googleblog.com/2021/10/what-is-the-dev-library.html] has been removed. Reply Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ? This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram