Shift to remote work prompted more cybersecurity questions than any breach - Stack Overflow Blog
Shift to remote work prompted more cybersecurity questions than any breach - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company stackoverflowknows October 11, 2021 Shift to remote work prompted more cybersecurity questions than any breach For this edition of Stack Overflow Knows, we did a deep dive into cybersecurity topics across Stack Overflow and Stack Exchange sites to spotlight trends and reflect on how conversations are evolving within the developer and technical community. David Gibson Senior Data Analyst Happy Cybersecurity Awareness Month! For this edition of Stack Overflow Knows, we did a deep dive into cybersecurity topics across Stack Overflow and Stack Exchange sites to spotlight trends and reflect on how conversations are evolving within the developer and technical community. We uncovered some findings—some surprising, some not so surprising. Check it out. Activity spikes around major breaches Up until recently (see the next section), security-related activity across the public platform appeared to be tied to major breaches. Some of the most publicized breaches in internet history prompted spikes in cybersecurity-related questions. The initial spike and climb in questions on Stack Overflow and new users in the Information Security Stack Exchange came in 2011, following the Sony and Target breach disclosures. Another increase in questions and new users in the Information Security Stack Exchange followed the eBay and Home Depot breaches that made headlines in 2014. The biggest peak in questions and new users in the Information Security Stack Exchange came right after Yahoo! disclosed its 2013 breach in 2016 and later announced another larger breach at the end of the same year. The pandemic trumps any breach While one-off security incidents led to spikes of interest in security, none rivaled the global impact of a massive shift to remote work. The trend of increased questions and new user spikes following security incidents got disrupted in 2020. Stack Overflow saw an undeniable pandemic-related spike at the beginning of 2020 when the shift to remote work prompted a nearly 60% increase in questions related to authentication. The volume of security-related questions at the start of lockdown exceeded that of any year in Stack Overflow history. Exploited vulnerabilities trigger the most developer questions What’s perhaps more interesting is the correlations we’re seeing when it comes to types of security incidents and volume of questions. We’re seeing the number of security-related questions increasing in tandem with the volume of exploited vulnerability-related breaches. In short, when there’s a breach due to a software vulnerability, cybersecurity-related questions within the developer community rise too. In the wake of a breach, it’s only natural to make sure you’re not at risk of suffering the same fate ASAP, but aren’t quite sure where to start. Quick, to Stack Overflow! Source: Information is Beautiful Light at the end of the tunnel? There’s clear connections between highly-publicized breaches occurring and corresponding rises in security-related questions and new users for the Information Security Stack Exchange. Exploited software vulnerabilities trigger the most developer questions on the public platform. Yet, the onset of the pandemic and the shift to remote work prompted a higher volume of questions on Stack Overflow than any breach in platform history. The battle to protect against threat actors will never subside, but there is an optimistic takeaway to be found here. We’re seeing a culture of learning in action. While vulnerabilities are inevitable, developers shifted from just reacting to breaches to proactively trying to secure everyone during the move to remote work. When a security incident happens, the Stack Overflow community asks questions and looks for answers. And as we all know, learning starts with asking a question. We’d love to know what you think. If you have a suggestion for what we should explore next, email us or share on social with the hashtag #StackOverflowKnows. Tags: #StackOverflowKnows, cybersecurity, security The Stack Overflow Podcast is a weekly conversation about working in software development, learning to code, and the art and culture of computer programming. Related newsletter October 22, 2021 The Overflow #96: A database built for a firehose Welcome to ISSUE #96 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: what drives growth in cybersecurity questions on Stack Overflow, teaching an AI to bid on properties in Monopoly, and every talk from Jamstack Conf 2021 in one handy playlist.… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams community October 27, 2021 Strong teams are more than just connected, they are communities Organizations and leaders have a responsibility to ensure people are heard, to build high levels of trust and enable them to show up authentically— all so they can do their best work. Prashanth Chandrasekar CEO stackoverflowknows September 2, 2021 Pandemic lockdowns accelerated cloud migration by three to four years The number of questions across Stack Overflow surged, and new research solidifies this trend. David Gibson and Ben Popper community August 2, 2021 Communities are a catalyst for technology development It's a big day at Stack Overflow! Our Prosus deal has closed and our latest Dev Survey is live. Prashanth Chandrasekar CEO Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ? This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram