Podcast 383: A database built for a firehose - Stack Overflow Blog
Podcast 383: A database built for a firehose - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company podcast October 12, 2021 Podcast 383: A database built for a firehose In this episode, we chat with Stephen Goldberg and Kyle Bernhardy from HarperDB. Their startup was born of the firehose of Twitter data during sporting events, and now they have a database designed to scale well for real-time data. Show notes HarperDB is a startup that focuses on highly scalable databases that handle real-time data. … Ryan Donovan Content Marketer In this episode, we chat with Stephen Goldberg and Kyle Bernhardy from HarperDB. Their startup was born of the firehose of Twitter data during sporting events, and now they have a database designed to scale well for real-time data. Show notes HarperDB is a startup that focuses on highly scalable databases that handle real-time data. Harper is built on Node.js and Express with a little help from Fastify. They know where they excel and where they don’t. High data throughput like gaming and vision, great! High data resolution and transactional software like financial applications, not so great. It’s speed over accuracy. Instead of a Lifeboat badge today, we shared a relevant question: Q: How to create HarperDB table with lambda. TRANSCRIPT Tags: big data, databases, the stack overflow podcast Related newsletter October 22, 2021 The Overflow #96: A database built for a firehose Welcome to ISSUE #96 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: what drives growth in cybersecurity questions on Stack Overflow, teaching an AI to bid on properties in Monopoly, and every talk from Jamstack Conf 2021 in one handy playlist.… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams podcast August 6, 2021 Podcast 364: What’s the blast radius when your database goes down? From Oracle to AWS to MongoDB, Mark Porter has played a pivotal role in the history and development of software databases. Ben Popper Director of Content newsletter November 5, 2021 The Overflow #98: Front end: JavaScript. Back end: Also JavaScript. Welcome to ISSUE #98 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: the home team talks through their first ten years in programming, ways to cope with murderous wizards, and science goes too far by rendering DOOM via checkboxes. From the blog… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams August 30, 2021 The full data set for the 2021 Developer Survey now available! Get your data here! Get your fresh hot 2021 Developer Survey data! Ryan Donovan Content Marketer 1 Comment Manuel says: 15 Oct 21 at 4:06 Great episode. Enjoyed the topic a lot. Also, thank goodness for the show notes: the whole time I was listening, I heard harbor db ? Reply Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ? This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram