The Overflow #90: A patent on a time machine - Stack Overflow Blog
The Overflow #90: A patent on a time machine - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company newsletter September 10, 2021 The Overflow #90: A patent on a time machine Welcome to ISSUE #90 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: we surveyed cloud adoption during the pandemic, what to do if your 40 hours a week job needs 80 hours, and why hyperlinks are blue. From the blog Pandemic… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams Welcome to ISSUE #90 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: we surveyed cloud adoption during the pandemic, what to do if your 40 hours a week job needs 80 hours, and why hyperlinks are blue. From the blog Pandemic lockdowns accelerated cloud migration by three to four years stackoverflow.blog Using the volume of questions on Stack Overflow, we can start to quantify the impact of a massive shift to remote work. Podcast 371: Exploring the magic of instant Python refactoring with Sourcery stackoverflow.blog Who needs a pair programmer? Podcast 372: Why yes, I do have a patent on a time machine stackoverflow.blog This week we chat with Angie Jones, Java champion, prolific inventor, and senior director of developer relations at Applitools. She previously held roles at Twitter and IBM. [Free eBook] How to be a CI/CD Engineer promotion If you are interested in specializing in CI/CD, or you’re already responsible for engineering effectiveness in your organization, you will find value in this guide to being a CI/CD Engineer. Interesting questions Filtering list of tuples based on condition stackoverflow.com If three’s a crowd, three threes is absolutely not allowed. Why is Quantum Key Distribution (QKD) impractical crypto.stackexchange.com Impractical doesn’t mean impossible; it just means there’s easier ways of getting it done. How exactly do apps not running “in the background” receive notifications? android.stackexchange.com It’s like getting mail without a mailbox. Working more than 40 hours a week 7 days a week workplace.stackexchange.com If the expectations of the job don’t match reality, it’s time to push back. Links from around the web Why are hyperlinks blue? blog.mozilla.org A nostalgic history of link and a dive into the origin of their color. React Native’s many platform vision reactnative.dev React Native has ambitious plans expand beyond mobile and support desktop and VR apps. Accessibility from the ground up kittygiraudel.com If you’re going to build a project from scratch or want to enable accessibility effectively, here’s some great pointers to get started. Design patterns in JavaScript dev.to Builders, factories, singletons, oh my! This is a great run-through of design patterns to remember for your projects. Onboard, organize, and bring your team up to speed in a jiffy. Try Stack Overflow for Teams. Tags: newsletter, the overflow The Stack Overflow Podcast is a weekly conversation about working in software development, learning to code, and the art and culture of computer programming. Related newsletter October 22, 2021 The Overflow #96: A database built for a firehose Welcome to ISSUE #96 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: what drives growth in cybersecurity questions on Stack Overflow, teaching an AI to bid on properties in Monopoly, and every talk from Jamstack Conf 2021 in one handy playlist.… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams community October 27, 2021 Strong teams are more than just connected, they are communities Organizations and leaders have a responsibility to ensure people are heard, to build high levels of trust and enable them to show up authentically— all so they can do their best work. Prashanth Chandrasekar CEO newsletter July 2, 2021 The Overflow #80: Introducing Collectives Welcome to ISSUE #80 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: The best approach to low priority bugs, working towards a better metric for responsiveness, and introducing our latest product—CollectivesTM. From the blog Announcing the launch of Collectives on Stack Overflow stackoverflow.blogWe’re thrilled… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams newsletter June 18, 2021 The Overflow #78: Blockchain; hype or game changer? Welcome to ISSUE #78 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: Our first Pulse survey looks at what developers think about blockchain, why travel to Mars will be slower than it could be, and a fascinating dive into the early… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ? This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram