David Gibson, Stack Overflow Blog
David Gibson, Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company David Gibson David is the Senior Data Analyst on the Marketing team. He is responsible for all things data and prides himself on bridging the gap between business and data science. Stay tuned, more to come... stackoverflowknows October 11, 2021 Shift to remote work prompted more cybersecurity questions than any breach For this edition of Stack Overflow Knows, we did a deep dive into cybersecurity topics across Stack Overflow and Stack Exchange sites to spotlight trends and reflect on how conversations are evolving within the developer and technical community. David Gibson Senior Data Analyst stackoverflowknows September 2, 2021 Pandemic lockdowns accelerated cloud migration by three to four years The number of questions across Stack Overflow surged, and new research solidifies this trend. David Gibson and Ben Popper community August 2, 2021 The 2021 Stack Overflow Developer Survey is here! Our data reveals some fascinating trends in education, remote work, and web frameworks. Ben Popper and David Gibson stackoverflowknows June 7, 2021 Most developers believe blockchain technology is a game changer But a little over one third disagree, viewing blockchain as mostly hype Ben Popper and David Gibson community April 19, 2021 How often do people actually copy and paste from Stack Overflow? Now we know. April Fool's may be over, but once we set up a system to react every time someone typed Command+C, we realized there was also an opportunity to learn about how people use our site. Here’s what we found. Ben Popper and David Gibson posts by author or Search for: © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram