The Overflow #77: Stack Overflow's exciting next chapter! - Stack Overflow Blog
The Overflow #77: Stack Overflow's exciting next chapter! - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company newsletter June 11, 2021 The Overflow #77: Stack Overflow’s exciting next chapter! Welcome to ISSUE #77 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. We’ll lead with the big news: Stack Overflow is getting acquired by Prosus; see our first item for more information. But wait, there’s more: being a team player when your team… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams Welcome to ISSUE #77 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. We’ll lead with the big news: Stack Overflow is getting acquired by Prosus; see our first item for more information. But wait, there’s more: being a team player when your team is in other time zones and behind the scenes on how web servers actually work. From the blog Prosus’s acquisition of Stack Overflow: Our exciting next chapter stackoverflow.blog Prosus has announced its intention to acquire Stack Overflow for 1.8 billion dollars. This is tremendously exciting news for our employees, our customers, our community members, and for our shareholders. Our CEO shares what it all means. CSS in SVG in CSS: Shipping confetti to Stack Overflow’s design system stackoverflow.blog Stack Overflow celebrates site accomplishments with confetti in multiple places. That means it’s time to formalize it in our design system. Podcast 343: Unpacking observability and OpenTelemetry with Spiros Xanthos of Splunk stackoverflow.blog As our applications move from local hardware to a sprawling array of clouds and containers, figuring out how they behave and what’s gone wrong is key. Designed for modern software teams, CircleCI’s continuous integration and delivery platform helps developers push code with confidence. promotion Trusted by thousands of companies, from four-person startups to Fortune 500 businesses, CircleCI helps teams take their software from idea to delivery, quickly, safely, and at scale. Learn why high-performing DevOps teams use CircleCI to automate and accelerate their CI/CD pipelines. Interesting questions What is a good random data CBC padding scheme? crypto.stackexchange.com Adding padding to plaintext opens you up to certain cipher attacks. How can I maintain cooperation while declining meetings scheduled past my local bed time? workplace.stackexchange.com Asking colleagues to respect your time zone doesn’t make you less of a team player Local network loses internet when a certain device connects superuser.com More like net-won’t-work anymore. Why aren’t you supposed to report status in standups? pm.stackexchange.com Today in “You’re doing Agile wrong…” Links from around the web We need to talk about WCAG level-level.com Over 95% of websites have accessibility problems. We need to find a better approach A new way to reduce font loading impact: CSS font descriptors www.smashingmagazine.com Web fonts can be the bane of your website’s existence when it comes to performance. Some upcoming font options may be able to solve that. Svelte for the experienced React dev css-tricks.com Svelte is gaining traction in the web community with its fast build times and intuitive setup. Here’s how to get started with it if you’re used to other frameworks! How do web servers work? dev.to If you’ve never really thought about how web servers function, here’s a practical look from the ground up! Onboard, organize, and bring your team up to speed in a jiffy. Try Stack Overflow for Teams. Tags: newsletter, the overflow The Stack Overflow Podcast is a weekly conversation about working in software development, learning to code, and the art and culture of computer programming. Related company June 2, 2021 Prosus’s Acquisition of Stack Overflow: Our Exciting Next Chapter This morning, Prosus (PROSY) has announced its intention to acquire Stack Overflow for 1.8 billion dollars. This is tremendously exciting news for our employees, our customers, our community members, and for our shareholders, and I will share a bit more about what it all means. Prashanth Chandrasekar CEO newsletter May 7, 2021 The Overflow #72: From personal trainer to frontend mentor Welcome to ISSUE #72 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. Spring is in the air, and here’s what’s in this newsletter: our CEO talks about the changes we’re undertaking to thrive long term, tips on reverse engineering, and the many definitions… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams community August 2, 2021 Communities are a catalyst for technology development It's a big day at Stack Overflow! Our Prosus deal has closed and our latest Dev Survey is live. Prashanth Chandrasekar CEO newsletter October 1, 2021 The Overflow #93: No joke—you can buy our copy/paste keyboard right now Welcome to ISSUE #93 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: the math and code of Dwarf Fortress, computer games in Star Trek, and alternative ways to manage state in React applications. From the blog The Loop: Our Community department… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams 2 Comments Peilonrayz says: 11 Jun 21 at 9:21 Today in “You’re doing escaping wrong…” Reply Ryan Donovan says: 14 Jun 21 at 9:35 Hahaha… fair, copied it from the email and was betrayed by my tooling. Curses! Reply Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ? This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram