Podcast 381: Building image search, but for any object IRL - Stack Overflow Blog
Podcast 381: Building image search, but for any object IRL - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company podcast October 5, 2021 Podcast 381: Building image search, but for any object IRL What if you could break a vase, and use any part to put it back together? Ben Popper Director of Content We chat with Paul Powers, founder and CEO of Physna, about what it takes to build a 3D search engine that can identify objects found in the real world. He hopes the process of connecting the digital and physical worlds will provide a tremendous boost to the speed of hardware innovation. Episode Notes You can learn more about Paul here. You can read more about Physna here. Paul is excited about the Metaverse. So are we! TRANSCRIPT Tags: 3d model, 3d search, object recognition, the stack overflow podcast Related podcast May 4, 2021 Podcast 335: Open source contributors helped a helicopter fly on Mars You drop an open source contribution like a stone in a pond. The ripples may land somewhere you never imagined. Ben Popper Director of Content newsletter October 15, 2021 The Overflow #95: Image search, but for any object IRL Welcome to ISSUE #95 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: the best practices for REST API auth, a physics lesson with air conditioners, and the wonders of the CSS Paint API. From the blog Extracting text from any file… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams podcast October 19, 2021 Podcast 385: Getting your first job off the CSS mailing list You're crafting the color of the button on the component of the feature for the platform, m'kay. Ben Popper Director of Content podcast July 27, 2021 Podcast 361: Why startups should use Kubernetes from day one We explore Stack Overflow's journey into the world of Kubernetes and containers with one of our software engineers, Max Horstmann. Ben Popper Director of Content Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ? This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram