The Overflow #92: Mapping the path from engineer to manager - Stack Overflow Blog
The Overflow #92: Mapping the path from engineer to manager - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company newsletter September 24, 2021 The Overflow #92: Mapping the path from engineer to manager Welcome to ISSUE #92 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: mapping the path from engineer to manager, looking to the stars for encryption, and improving the junior dev experience with seven VS Code extensions. From the blog Why your… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams Welcome to ISSUE #92 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: mapping the path from engineer to manager, looking to the stars for encryption, and improving the junior dev experience with seven VS Code extensions. From the blog Why your data needs a QA process stackoverflow.blog At this point, most software engineers see the value of testing their software regularly. But are you testing your data engineering as well? This AI-assisted bug bash is offering serious prizes for squashing nasty code stackoverflow.blog Machine learning finds the bugs, you squash them. Podcast 376: Writing the roadmap from engineer to manager stackoverflow.blog Engineer and manager have a surprising amount of similarities: both are building things, but the feedback loop for managers is a lot longer. eBook: Accelerate app deployment with modern Dev+Ops promotion Modern Dev+Ops helps you deliver faster and with fewer errors by closing the gap between developer and ops functions. Get an action plan for adopting best practices like GitOps, CI/CD, continuous observability, and more. Interesting questions Foundation models : Is it a new paradigm for statistics and machine learning? stats.stackexchange.com Using the new hotness to calculate your position in the hype cycle. Could celestial objects be used in cryptography? crypto.stackexchange.com Twinkle twinkle little star, random numbers is what you are. What does Big O actually tell you? math.stackexchange.com Hint: it’s not the same thing as benchmarking. What are sealed classes in Java 17? stackoverflow.com They are only accessible to Laura Croft, Code Raider. Links from around the web Keep the React app responsive even during large screen updates with startTransition API introduced in React 18 blog.saeloun.com React has always been a, well, reactive framework when it comes to state changes. This new API enables prioritization in an interesting way! Seven useful VS Code extension for junior web developers dev.to If you’re early in your coding journey, this list might be help you to get productive, faster! Get up and running with Astro aalam.in The Astro framework is growing in popularity quickly, and for good reason! Here’s a great five-part introduction to get you started. Developer decisions for building flexible components www.smashingmagazine.com Components can get complex quickly. This walkthrough might help in your decision processes for turning seemingly simple components into code. Onboard, organize, and bring your team up to speed in a jiffy. Try Stack Overflow for Teams. Tags: newsletter, the overflow The Stack Overflow Podcast is a weekly conversation about working in software development, learning to code, and the art and culture of computer programming. Related newsletter August 13, 2021 The Overflow #86: Dev Survey results! Welcome to ISSUE #86 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: the Dev Survey results, why we describe technology in terms of a stack, and test-driven development in React Native. From the blog The 2021 Developer Survey results are here! stackoverflow.blogOur… Ryan Donovan Content Marketer newsletter June 4, 2021 The Overflow #76: The 2021 Dev Survey now open! Welcome to ISSUE #76 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. The new Developer Survey is here! But also: precise measurements using imprecise tools and a visual walkthrough of Kubernetes. From the blog The 2021 Developer Survey is now open! stackoverflow.blogWe want to… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams code-for-a-living June 21, 2021 Can InnerSource bring open source practices to closed corporate bureaucracies? Open source won. Now, the OSS way of working is making inroads into new territories: the corporate engineering department. Ryan Donovan Content Marketer podcast October 19, 2021 Podcast 385: Getting your first job off the CSS mailing list You're crafting the color of the button on the component of the feature for the platform, m'kay. Ben Popper Director of Content Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ? This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram