The Overflow #95: Image search, but for any object IRL - Stack Overflow Blog
The Overflow #95: Image search, but for any object IRL - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company newsletter October 15, 2021 The Overflow #95: Image search, but for any object IRL Welcome to ISSUE #95 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: the best practices for REST API auth, a physics lesson with air conditioners, and the wonders of the CSS Paint API. From the blog Extracting text from any file… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams Welcome to ISSUE #95 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: the best practices for REST API auth, a physics lesson with air conditioners, and the wonders of the CSS Paint API. From the blog Extracting text from any file is harder than it looks. Extracting formatting is even harder. stackoverflow.blog Hyland discusses how deep their document filtering rabbit hole really goes. Best practices for authentication and authorization for REST APIs stackoverflow.blog If you have a REST API accessible on the internet, you’re going to need to secure it. Here’s our guide to best practices. Podcast 381: Building image search, but for any object IRL stackoverflow.blog What if you could break a vase and use any part to put it back together? Try Lightsail for free for up to three months promotion Ideal for simple workloads, quick deployments, and getting started on AWS, Lightsail is designed to help you start small and then scale as you grow. For a limited time, new Amazon Lightsail customers can try Lightsail for free on select bundles. Interesting questions Increment the time codegolf.stackexchange.com A minute is short. This code is shorter. Is there a way to make an air conditioner without venting heat outdoors? engineering.stackexchange.com In this house, we obey the laws of thermodynamics! Can satellite images be copyrighted? law.stackexchange.com “Doctrine of the sweat of the brow” sounds like something parents say to get you to mow the lawn. Adding odd numbers in C++ codereview.stackexchange.com For when your code can’t even. Links from around the web How I learnt to stop worrying and love animating the box model whistlr.info Some CSS properties are GPU-accelerated, and usually you just want to animate those. But what if you animated others? Announcing TypeScript 4.5 Beta devblogs.microsoft.com TypeScript recently hit its ninth birthday, and it’s easy to think of it as a simple way to add types to JavaScript&#8230; but it’s so much more than that. Exploring the CSS Paint API: Polygon Border css-tricks.com Have you tried the Paint API? Here’s a great deep dive into how you can set up paths to make cool borders on your sites! Git Explorer gitexplorer.com If you’re tired of searching for the same git commands over and over, here’s a tool that’ll make your searches more efficient! Onboard, organize, and bring your team up to speed in a jiffy. Try Stack Overflow for Teams. Tags: newsletter, the overflow The Stack Overflow Podcast is a weekly conversation about working in software development, learning to code, and the art and culture of computer programming. Related newsletter September 24, 2021 The Overflow #92: Mapping the path from engineer to manager Welcome to ISSUE #92 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: mapping the path from engineer to manager, looking to the stars for encryption, and improving the junior dev experience with seven VS Code extensions. From the blog Why your… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams newsletter August 6, 2021 The Overflow #84 and 85: How Dwarf Fortress is built After two decades of crafting code, even solo developers need good comments to understand what they wrote in the first place. Ben Popper Director of Content newsletter November 12, 2021 The Overflow #99: These principles are still SOLID Welcome to ISSUE #99 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: big problems for people who can’t solve small problems, the nerdiest argument over a Dungeons and Dragons roll, and using the golden ratio in user interface design. From the… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams newsletter May 14, 2021 The Overflow #73: Open source helicopters on Mars Welcome to ISSUE #73 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: open source contributions take a helicopter to Mars, bug bounties cause real damage, and GitHub Actions give you a shortcut to continuous deployment. From the blog Find knowledge faster:… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ? This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram