Automate away your boring standup meetings - Stack Overflow Blog
Automate away your boring standup meetings - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company partner-content September 29, 2021 Automate away your boring standup meetings HCL Accelerate sweats the small stuff so your team can crush their Epics. Ryan Donovan Content Marketer Right now, most development teams provide visibility into their overall process and lifecycle through standup meetings and spreadsheets. It can be a painfully manual process that uses up valuable engineering time. Value stream management aims to solve that by mapping out the entire software development life cycle and providing visibility into areas where things are breaking down or getting stuck. It borrows ideas from Agile and the automate-all-the-things attitude from DevOps to ensure engineering teams are moving fast with direction, avoiding bottlenecks, and reaching the the key objectives management planned weeks ago. In this episode, we chat with Nick Mathison and Sylvan Carbonell from HCL Software DevOps about value stream management and how their product, HCL Accelerate, brings visibility into the entire gamut of the SDLC, from the request coming in from a customer to deploying code to the production servers. At the foundation of this process is a good map of the company’s value stream. Think of it as bringing all your teams together to map out the entire workflow of your development cycle on a whiteboard, from receiving feature requests and bug reports, assigning out tickets, merging code, requesting code reviews, passing build tests, QA processes, and finally deploying to production. The value stream map brings that whiteboard to life. Once the process is mapped out and the data flows revealed, it is very easy to track where the work is at any given time and how fast it is flowing through the value stream. Every company has little idiosyncrasies that make their process unique: their specific slowdowns, time sinks, and manual approvals that grind development to a halt. Value stream management spots those and helps you eliminate them. In a value stream, you’re no longer watching individual devs; your best metrics cover the “two-pizza team,” a team small enough to be fed by two pizzas. This team’s interactions—working through epic tickets, code reviews, internal support, etc.—provides the best metrics to identify ways to increase the value that a team provides. With many technology companies working fully remotely during the pandemic, understanding each team’s process is critical. HCL offers a way to accomplish this without bringing lengthy standups back in the picture. Start benefiting from value stream management today with the forever-free Community Edition of HCL Accelerate. Try HCL Accelerate now. Tags: partner content, partnercontent, standup meetings Related code-for-a-living November 29, 2021 The four engineering metrics that will streamline your software delivery Productive teams get product fixes and features out the door fast. Here's the metrics to check to see how your team is delivering. Tanaka Mutakwa Content Marketer newsletter October 8, 2021 The Overflow #94: Automate away boring standups Welcome to ISSUE #94 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: how our joke keyboard became real, how we see the light from distant stars, and why any productivity software will eventually be used to play games. From the blog… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams newsletter June 11, 2021 The Overflow #77: Stack Overflow’s exciting next chapter! Welcome to ISSUE #77 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. We’ll lead with the big news: Stack Overflow is getting acquired by Prosus; see our first item for more information. But wait, there’s more: being a team player when your team… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams newsletter July 9, 2021 The Overflow #81: Evolving product development at Stack Overflow Welcome to ISSUE #81 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This issue number, like me, is a perfect square. Here’s what you can geek out over this week: the user research behind our new Collectives product, how the ISS calculates the… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams 1 Comment Steve says: 30 Sep 21 at 1:47 Something is broken in iOS podcasts for this show… no new episodes have appeared since May 14, 2021! Reply Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ? This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram