Podcast 379: Become a better coder...with this one weird click - Stack Overflow Blog
Podcast 379: Become a better coder...with this one weird click - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company podcast September 28, 2021 Podcast 379: Become a better coder…with this one weird click Our copy-paste keyboard is no longer just an April Fools joke, it's now a product you can actually buy! Ben Popper Director of Content Our April Fools joke was so popular we decided to make it real. You can now purchase a glorious Stack Overflow meme brought to life! The Key copy/paste macropad is available through the fine folks at Drop here. In this episode we chat with Kunal Kumar of Drop about what it took to make our gag into a viable consumer product. Also on this episode, our frequent collaborator, Cassidy Williams of Netlify, who helped design The Key and joined the conversation to share her love for all things mechanical keyboard. Tags: the stack overflow podcast Related September 28, 2021 No joke—you can buy our copy/paste keyboard right now Become a better coder...with this one weird click. The copy and paste keyboard from our April Fool's joke is real and available for purchase. Ben Popper Director of Content newsletter October 8, 2021 The Overflow #94: Automate away boring standups Welcome to ISSUE #94 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: how our joke keyboard became real, how we see the light from distant stars, and why any productivity software will eventually be used to play games. From the blog… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams podcast May 4, 2021 Podcast 335: Open source contributors helped a helicopter fly on Mars You drop an open source contribution like a stone in a pond. The ripples may land somewhere you never imagined. Ben Popper Director of Content newsletter October 1, 2021 The Overflow #93: No joke—you can buy our copy/paste keyboard right now Welcome to ISSUE #93 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: the math and code of Dwarf Fortress, computer games in Star Trek, and alternative ways to manage state in React applications. From the blog The Loop: Our Community department… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ? This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram