The Overflow #93: No joke—you can buy our copy/paste keyboard right now - Stack Overflow Blog
The Overflow #93: No joke—you can buy our copy/paste keyboard right now - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company newsletter October 1, 2021 The Overflow #93: No joke—you can buy our copy/paste keyboard right now Welcome to ISSUE #93 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: the math and code of Dwarf Fortress, computer games in Star Trek, and alternative ways to manage state in React applications. From the blog The Loop: Our Community department… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams Welcome to ISSUE #93 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: the math and code of Dwarf Fortress, computer games in Star Trek, and alternative ways to manage state in React applications. From the blog The Loop: Our Community department roadmap for Q4 2021 stackoverflow.blog Want to know what projects the Community team is working on during the next three months? Our VP of Community walks us through the upcoming changes and improvements. No joke—you can buy our copy/paste keyboard right now stackoverflow.blog Become a better coder&#8230;with this one weird click. The copy and paste keyboard from our April Fool’s joke is real and available for purchase. Podcast 377: You don’t need a math PhD to play Dwarf Fortress, just to code it stackoverflow.blog Tarn Adams, the lone programmer on Dwarf Fortress for 15 years, chats with us about how he writes code that procedurally generates entire fantasy worlds. MongoDB & Google Cloud Developer Summit promotion Join us for a day packed with learning from MongoDB & Google Cloud experts, including a look at how our customers have transformed the way they work with data. Agenda includes tech talks on topics such as Microservices, Data AI/ML integrations & more! Interesting questions How do I ask for a demotion? workplace.stackexchange.com Figure out who gets promoted and you can have your demotion. If my electronic devices are searched, can a police officer use my ideas? law.stackexchange.com You have the right to remain silent, but I’m open to fresh ideas! Electrical reason for the minimum altitude (-50 feet) in the computer specs? electronics.stackexchange.com It’s a fancier way of saying it doesn’t work under water. Do computer games still exist in Star Trek? scifi.stackexchange.com When the Holodeck is a bit to much for ya. Links from around the web Socialist cyborgs logicmag.io Bulgaria tried and failed to save communism with computers in the 80s. Read on to learn how, the truth is stranger than fiction! Using Recoil instead of Redux for state management in React applications blog.openreplay.com Redux and the Context API are the most popular ways to manage your state in React, but maybe it’s time to consider an alternative. React is declarative—What does it mean? alexsidorenko.com What’s the difference between declarative and imperative programming? It’s a good thing to know. The future of CSS: Cascade layers (CSS @layer) www.bram.us The “cascade” part of CSS can be a pain sometimes&#8230; and layers might be a good solution for it! Onboard, organize, and bring your team up to speed in a jiffy. Try Stack Overflow for Teams. Tags: newsletter, the overflow The Stack Overflow Podcast is a weekly conversation about working in software development, learning to code, and the art and culture of computer programming. Related September 28, 2021 No joke—you can buy our copy/paste keyboard right now Become a better coder...with this one weird click. The copy and paste keyboard from our April Fool's joke is real and available for purchase. Ben Popper Director of Content newsletter October 8, 2021 The Overflow #94: Automate away boring standups Welcome to ISSUE #94 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: how our joke keyboard became real, how we see the light from distant stars, and why any productivity software will eventually be used to play games. From the blog… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams podcast September 21, 2021 Podcast 377: You don’t need a math PhD to play Dwarf Fortress, just to code it I am a dwarf and I'm digging a hole. Ryan Donovan Content Marketer podcast September 28, 2021 Podcast 379: Become a better coder…with this one weird click Our copy-paste keyboard is no longer just an April Fools joke, it's now a product you can actually buy! Ben Popper Director of Content Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ? This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram