The Overflow #88: Building a better developer platform - Stack Overflow Blog
The Overflow #88: Building a better developer platform - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company newsletter August 27, 2021 The Overflow #88: Building a better developer platform Welcome to ISSUE #88 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: we discuss the close of the Prosus deal with our CEO, figure out how to change matrix values in R, and add machine learning to our humble Jamstack sites.… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams Welcome to ISSUE #88 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: we discuss the close of the Prosus deal with our CEO, figure out how to change matrix values in R, and add machine learning to our humble Jamstack sites. From the blog Using stretch work assignments to help engineers grow stackoverflow.blog Stretch work assignments are tasks or projects that are a bit beyond an engineer’s current skill or knowledge level and that allow them to improve and learn new things. When done correctly these assignments serve a dual purpose of providing learning opportunities for your engineers, while at the same time completing a project or task that will help your company. Celebrating the Stack Exchange sites that turned 10 years old stackoverflow.blog We’re more than just StackOverflow.com; here’s a few of the sites in the Stack Exchange network that have been around for a decade! Podcast 367: Building a better developer platform stackoverflow.blog For the last time: No, we’re not putting a paywall on the community. HealthCare Locator: An open-source SDK for Healthcare apps promotion Creating health apps just got easier. Tap into the world’s leading HealthCare provider database, add HCP names, locations & specialty information with pre-built search & map display screens and admin tools for layout customization. Interesting questions How to change matrix entries using conditional if in R? stackoverflow.com This isn’t a yes or no question; it’s a whole matrix of them. What happens if two local systems download the same resource on same port? serverfault.com They fight and one of them gets stronger, right? What are pros/cons of using buttons instead of plain links to download a document? ux.stackexchange.com The extra shiny factor of buttons makes it more tempting to click. I am spending more time installing software than coding. Why? softwareengineering.stackexchange.com As a developer, don’t assume that the work that you’re not interested in should be no effort. Links from around the web Building a switch component web.dev Switches may be simple to look at, but they are mighty to try out. Here’s how to make a responsive and accessible one! Strategies for dealing with horizontal overflows polypane.app We’ve all run into those horrid, unplanned horizontal scrollbars in various websites around the world. Here’s a great set of strategies for dealing with them once and for all! Adding machine learning to your Jamstack site www.netlify.com Machine learning? On the web? Heck yeah. This is an awesome dive into the options you have when building ML-driven web apps and integrating them with serverless functions. Introducing MIDIVal: the easiest way to interact with MIDI in your browser kulak.medium.com MIDI has been around for ages, and now there’s even more ways to interact with it in your browser! Onboard, organize, and bring your team up to speed in a jiffy. Try Stack Overflow for Teams. Tags: newsletter, the overflow The Stack Overflow Podcast is a weekly conversation about working in software development, learning to code, and the art and culture of computer programming. Related community August 2, 2021 Communities are a catalyst for technology development It's a big day at Stack Overflow! Our Prosus deal has closed and our latest Dev Survey is live. Prashanth Chandrasekar CEO newsletter May 21, 2021 The Overflow #74: Behind the scenes at SpaceX Welcome to ISSUE #74 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: So long to a podcast co-host, it’s a good year to go to Mars, and neural networks doing the important work of making video games more realistic. From the… Ryan Donovan Content Marketer newsletter October 8, 2021 The Overflow #94: Automate away boring standups Welcome to ISSUE #94 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: how our joke keyboard became real, how we see the light from distant stars, and why any productivity software will eventually be used to play games. From the blog… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams code-for-a-living August 16, 2021 Using stretch work assignments to help engineers grow Stretch work assignments are tasks or projects that are a bit beyond an engineer’s current skill or knowledge level and that allow them to improve and learn new things. When done correctly these assignments serve a dual purpose of providing learning opportunities for your engineers, while at the same time completing a project or task that will help your company. Tanaka Mutakwa Content Marketer Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ? This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram