The Overflow #81: Evolving product development at Stack Overflow - Stack Overflow Blog
The Overflow #81: Evolving product development at Stack Overflow - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company newsletter July 9, 2021 The Overflow #81: Evolving product development at Stack Overflow Welcome to ISSUE #81 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This issue number, like me, is a perfect square. Here’s what you can geek out over this week: the user research behind our new Collectives product, how the ISS calculates the… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams Welcome to ISSUE #81 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This issue number, like me, is a perfect square. Here’s what you can geek out over this week: the user research behind our new Collectives product, how the ISS calculates the chances of getting hit by space junk, and using serverless functions in Jamstack apps. From the blog What makes a great IT consultant – and how you can become one stackoverflow.blog An international freelance agency shares 30 years of experience and the five qualities that make the perfect consultant. Unpacking the user research behind Collectives™ stackoverflow.blog We spent over a hundred hours in 1-on-1 interviews and collected thousands of survey responses to better understand what our community and customers wanted to see in this product. This feedback shaped everything from naming to moderation, and helped us evolve and iterate the concept into what it is today. Episode 352: How product development at Stack Overflow has evolved stackoverflow.blog We chat with Adam Lear, staff software engineer at Stack Overflow, about product,anti-patterns, documentation, developer profiles, and turning reputation into a cryptocurrency. Designed for modern software teams, CircleCI’s continuous integration and delivery platform helps developers push code with confidence. circleci.com Trusted by thousands of companies, from 4-person startups to fortune-500 businesses, CircleCI helps teams take their software from idea to delivery, quickly, safely, and at scale. Learn why high-performing DevOps teams use CircleCI to automate and accelerate their CI/CD pipelines. Interesting questions What are the chances that a spacecraft is hit by space junk? space.stackexchange.com According to the person who does this for the ISS, it depends. How big an object are you worried about hitting? How to master FORTRAN with minimal effort? mattermodeling.stackexchange.com I’ve heard of lazy loading, but this is ridiculous. Understand Python swapping: why is a, b = b, a not equivalent to b, a = a, b in this case? stackoverflow.com Mama mia! ABBA isn’t quite the same band as BAAB. Why would anyone sell a Bitcoin miner instead of just mining themselves? bitcoin.stackexchange.com “In a gold rush, the only people getting rich are those selling shovels.” Links from around the web Overlay fact sheet overlayfactsheet.com This is a pretty significant open letter about web accessibility overlays and worth reading! React All-Day: How do serverless functions and the Jamstack power up your React apps? | Ep. 6 www.youtube.com This is a solid, practical screencast on building serverless functions into your React apps. A curated collection of publicly available resources on how technology and tech-savvy organizations around the world practice Site Reliability Engineering (SRE) github.com This is an amazing collection of publicly available resources showcasing how tech organizations around the world practice Site Reliability Engineering! Saving data to Supabase and getting it back again dev.to Supabase is one of the newer “database as a service” tools in the scene. Here’s a nice little tutorial for saving and fetching data from it! Onboard, organize, and bring your team up to speed in a jiffy. Try Stack Overflow for Teams. Tags: newsletter, the overflow The Stack Overflow Podcast is a weekly conversation about working in software development, learning to code, and the art and culture of computer programming. Related November 3, 2021 Intel joins Collectives™ on Stack Overflow Intel is now on Collectives™ on Stack Overflow. Jascha Drel company June 23, 2021 Announcing the launch of Collectives™ on Stack Overflow We're thrilled to be launching this new product with Google Cloud and Go. Teresa Dietrich community June 25, 2021 Unpacking the user research behind Collectives™ We spent over a hundred hours in 1-on-1 interviews and collected thousands of survey responses to better understand what our community and customers wanted to see in this product. This feedback shaped everything from naming to moderation, and helped us evolve and iterate the concept into what it is today. Ben Popper and Mithila Fox newsletter June 18, 2021 The Overflow #78: Blockchain; hype or game changer? Welcome to ISSUE #78 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: Our first Pulse survey looks at what developers think about blockchain, why travel to Mars will be slower than it could be, and a fascinating dive into the early… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ? This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram