The Overflow #94: Automate away boring standups - Stack Overflow Blog
The Overflow #94: Automate away boring standups - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company newsletter October 8, 2021 The Overflow #94: Automate away boring standups Welcome to ISSUE #94 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: how our joke keyboard became real, how we see the light from distant stars, and why any productivity software will eventually be used to play games. From the blog… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams Welcome to ISSUE #94 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: how our joke keyboard became real, how we see the light from distant stars, and why any productivity software will eventually be used to play games. From the blog Check out the Stack Exchange sites that turned 10 years old in Q3 stackoverflow.blog Ten years on the internet is a long time. Let’s celebrate the Stack Exchange sites that recently hit that milestone. Automate away your boring standup meetings stackoverflow.blog HCL Accelerate sweats the small stuff so your team can crush their Epics. Podcast 379: Become a better coder…with this one weird click stackoverflow.blog Our copy-paste keyboard is no longer just an April Fools joke, it’s now a product you can actually buy! Looking for official server SDKs for Node.js? promotion The Couchbase Node.js SDK is the default choice for JavaScript developers building applications with Node.js. Develop Node.js apps with agility, backed by a JSON database with Couchbase. Try it today. Interesting questions How does light from distant galaxies reach us? physics.stackexchange.com There’s nothing standing between us. Literally. Can I safely preview a short link? security.stackexchange.com Smaller does not equal safer. Launch a windows executable from Run menu in a single word (or two) superuser.com Right idea, wrong menu. Which computer system defined the IPv4 576 byte datagram limit retrocomputing.stackexchange.com Get off my Arpanet, you durn kids! Links from around the web Board gaming in Figma mastery.games Life… finds a way… and so do board games! Here’s an interesting post about turning a design tool into a board game. React antipatterns to avoid isamatov.com Antipatterns in any codebase can be a pain. Learn how to prevent them early. Simplifying form styles with accent-color www.smashingmagazine.com There’s a new property in CSS that makes it easier to roll out branding colors and schemes! Creating a continuous deployment workflow using Github Actions to deploy your application to ECS dev.to Continuous deployment helps you make sure that every merge has an artifact and uses the correct environment. Here’s a nice little article to get yourself set up with it! Onboard, organize, and bring your team up to speed in a jiffy. Try Stack Overflow for Teams. Tags: newsletter, the overflow The Stack Overflow Podcast is a weekly conversation about working in software development, learning to code, and the art and culture of computer programming. Related newsletter October 1, 2021 The Overflow #93: No joke—you can buy our copy/paste keyboard right now Welcome to ISSUE #93 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: the math and code of Dwarf Fortress, computer games in Star Trek, and alternative ways to manage state in React applications. From the blog The Loop: Our Community department… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams newsletter June 11, 2021 The Overflow #77: Stack Overflow’s exciting next chapter! Welcome to ISSUE #77 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. We’ll lead with the big news: Stack Overflow is getting acquired by Prosus; see our first item for more information. But wait, there’s more: being a team player when your team… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams newsletter August 27, 2021 The Overflow #88: Building a better developer platform Welcome to ISSUE #88 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: we discuss the close of the Prosus deal with our CEO, figure out how to change matrix values in R, and add machine learning to our humble Jamstack sites.… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams newsletter July 9, 2021 The Overflow #81: Evolving product development at Stack Overflow Welcome to ISSUE #81 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This issue number, like me, is a perfect square. Here’s what you can geek out over this week: the user research behind our new Collectives product, how the ISS calculates the… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ? This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram