The Overflow - Page 2 of 10 - Stack Overflow Blog
The Overflow - Page 2 of 10 - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company The Overflow A newsletter by developers, for developers, curated by Cassidy Williams and the Stack Overflow team. Every week, we’ll share a collection of great questions from our community, news and articles from our blog, and awesome links from around the web. Email settings RSS Feed newsletter September 10, 2021 The Overflow #90: A patent on a time machine Welcome to ISSUE #90 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: we surveyed cloud adoption during the pandemic, what to do if your 40 hours a week job needs 80 hours, and why hyperlinks are blue. From the blog Pandemic… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams newsletter September 3, 2021 The Overflow #89: Passwords are dead! Welcome to ISSUE #89 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: visualize your engineering failures, connect to two ISPs at once, and theme your app in Flutter. From the blog You’re living in the Metaverse, you just don’t know it… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams newsletter August 27, 2021 The Overflow #88: Building a better developer platform Welcome to ISSUE #88 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: we discuss the close of the Prosus deal with our CEO, figure out how to change matrix values in R, and add machine learning to our humble Jamstack sites.… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams newsletter August 20, 2021 The Overflow #87: Advance your developer career by writing Welcome to ISSUE #87 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: we bought some weird domain names, found creative ways to kill flies, and designed a swanky initial drop caps using CSS. From the blog How writing can advance your… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams newsletter August 13, 2021 The Overflow #86: Dev Survey results! Welcome to ISSUE #86 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: the Dev Survey results, why we describe technology in terms of a stack, and test-driven development in React Native. From the blog The 2021 Developer Survey results are here! stackoverflow.blogOur… Ryan Donovan Content Marketer newsletter August 6, 2021 The Overflow #84 and 85: How Dwarf Fortress is built After two decades of crafting code, even solo developers need good comments to understand what they wrote in the first place. Ben Popper Director of Content newsletter July 23, 2021 The Overflow #83: Steady paycheck or solo project? Welcome to ISSUE #83 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: how to get started programming with Python, why crackpots show up in peer-reviewed journals, and when flashy animations trigger motion sickness. From the blog Learning from the real world:… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams newsletter July 16, 2021 The Overflow #82: Best practices for comments Welcome to ISSUE #82 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: why you should mentor others, does GPL apply to neural network models, and hacking the React AST. From the blog Best practices for writing code comments stackoverflow.blogWhile there are many… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams newsletter July 9, 2021 The Overflow #81: Evolving product development at Stack Overflow Welcome to ISSUE #81 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This issue number, like me, is a perfect square. Here’s what you can geek out over this week: the user research behind our new Collectives product, how the ISS calculates the… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams newsletter July 2, 2021 The Overflow #80: Introducing Collectives Welcome to ISSUE #80 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: The best approach to low priority bugs, working towards a better metric for responsiveness, and introducing our latest product—CollectivesTM. From the blog Announcing the launch of Collectives on Stack Overflow stackoverflow.blogWe’re thrilled… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams newsletter June 25, 2021 The Overflow #79: Zoom! Enhance! Super resolution! Welcome to ISSUE #79 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: machine learning makes 480p into 1080p, stairs and their effect on potential energy, and how open source affects build vs. buy decisions. From the blog Zoom, enhance. There! We… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams Posts navigation Previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 … 10 Next posts by author or Search for: © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram