The Overflow #89: Passwords are dead! - Stack Overflow Blog
The Overflow #89: Passwords are dead! - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company newsletter September 3, 2021 The Overflow #89: Passwords are dead! Welcome to ISSUE #89 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: visualize your engineering failures, connect to two ISPs at once, and theme your app in Flutter. From the blog You’re living in the Metaverse, you just don’t know it… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams Welcome to ISSUE #89 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: visualize your engineering failures, connect to two ISPs at once, and theme your app in Flutter. From the blog You’re living in the Metaverse, you just don’t know it yet. stackoverflow.blog The concept of the Metaverse was coined by sci-fi author Neal Stephenson decades ago. But it feels as if we’re reaching a meaningful inflection point in our journey towards this dream. See where your engineering process go wrong with data visualization stackoverflow.blog Here’s three areas where data visualization can make your life easier. Podcast 369: Passwords are dead! Long live the new authentication flows. stackoverflow.blog Magic links get you in the door safer than passwords. Join us on September 2 for our third annual AWS Storage Day promotion Discover what’s new in cloud storage, hear from leading experts across the AWS Storage portfolio, and learn how to leverage AWS Storage solutions to simplify your infrastructure and reduce costs. Register now for this free online event. Interesting questions Why don’t some services offer Google/Facebook/Apple/Twitter login? security.stackexchange.com While it’s often easier for users, federated login services don’t always cut it with services. Has Peter Thiel said “Your mind is software. Program it. Your body is a shell. Change it. Death is a disease. Cure it.”? skeptics.stackexchange.com PayPal founder or tabletop RPG about transhuman horror? Sometimes it’s hard to tell the difference. Can Win10 on modern laptop support simultaneous connections to two ISPs? superuser.com Internet speeds not to your liking? Try putting two providers together. What are some early examples of large international scientific collaborations? hsm.stackexchange.com Before the international scientific community got together for the Large Hadron Collider, they had to align on their units of measure.. Links from around the web Guided walkthrough of Stack Overflow for Teams www.youtube.com Wondering what makes Stack Overflow for Teams a must-have platform for so many companies? We put the user first, building features that make knowledge sharing and reuse easy. Watch the demo to see more. Does shadow DOM improve style performance? nolanlawson.com Is the speed gain worth using the shadow DOM regularly? Let’s find out. A guide to theming your app in Flutter blog.logrocket.com This is a great little guide for getting a design system set up in your Flutter applications. Decoding AVIF: Deep dive with cats and imgproxy evilmartians.com AVIF is the tiny image file format that’s slowly but surely taking the web by storm. Here’s how to implement it if you’re using a browser that doesn’t support it yet! Ten years of Bootstrap blog.getbootstrap.com 10 years, billions of pageviews, and millions of downloads later, Bootstrap is still going strong, arguably having changed the course of web design. Onboard, organize, and bring your team up to speed in a jiffy. Try Stack Overflow for Teams. Tags: newsletter, the overflow The Stack Overflow Podcast is a weekly conversation about working in software development, learning to code, and the art and culture of computer programming. Related newsletter August 6, 2021 The Overflow #84 and 85: How Dwarf Fortress is built After two decades of crafting code, even solo developers need good comments to understand what they wrote in the first place. Ben Popper Director of Content newsletter July 9, 2021 The Overflow #81: Evolving product development at Stack Overflow Welcome to ISSUE #81 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This issue number, like me, is a perfect square. Here’s what you can geek out over this week: the user research behind our new Collectives product, how the ISS calculates the… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams newsletter November 26, 2021 The Overflow #101: Invest in your favorite developer Welcome to ISSUE #101 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: QA for deep learning pipelines, getting efficient with summation formulas, and finding the point where a table is too big. From the blog Building a QA process for your… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams code-for-a-living August 25, 2021 Diagnose engineering process failures with data visualization Here's three areas where data visualization can make your engineering life easier. Ian Johnson Content Marketer Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ? This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram