The Overflow #87: Advance your developer career by writing - Stack Overflow Blog
The Overflow #87: Advance your developer career by writing - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company newsletter August 20, 2021 The Overflow #87: Advance your developer career by writing Welcome to ISSUE #87 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: we bought some weird domain names, found creative ways to kill flies, and designed a swanky initial drop caps using CSS. From the blog How writing can advance your… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams Welcome to ISSUE #87 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: we bought some weird domain names, found creative ways to kill flies, and designed a swanky initial drop caps using CSS. From the blog How writing can advance your career as a developer stackoverflow.blog “In their ?rst few years on the job, engineers spend roughly 30% of their workday writing, while engineers in middle management write for 50% to 70% of their day; those in senior management reportedly spend over 70% and as much as 95% of their day writing.” – Jon Leydens The strange domain names that developers bought stackoverflow.blog Not every domain is serious business. Here’s a few of the fun ones that we at Stack Overflow owned, as well as those owned by our community. Podcast 365: Fake your own voice with AI, podcasting has never been easier stackoverflow.blog We chat with Andrew Mason, CEO of Descript, about the future of AI-assisted content creation. Continuous Testing DevOps Workshop: Register Now promotion Join this workshop from AWS and the DevOps Institute to learn how to implement continuous testing to shorten test cycles, increase code quality, and deliver better features faster. Interesting questions Two-thirds of my class colluded. Should I report them to the academic offences committee? academia.stackexchange.com Feeling left out? Is there any way to kill a fly without a flyswatter? lifehacks.stackexchange.com There was an old lady who swallowed a fly; more squeamish folks should check here for less culinary techniques. Does gravity get stronger the higher up you are on a mountain? physics.stackexchange.com Understanding gravity sometimes feels like climbing Everest. Cracking RSA (or other algorithms) manually by a savant crypto.stackexchange.com We only use 10% of our brains; the other 90% is installing Windows updates. Links from around the web HTTP/3 From A To Z: Core Concepts (Part 1) www.smashingmagazine.com Why would you use HTTP/3? Should you? Learn what you need to know in this detailed post! Print media style drop caps using only CSS www.amitmerchant.com If you like that one Spongebob episode where his entire essay is just the word “The” with an ornate, drop-capped T, then this article is for you! How we design our APIs at Slack slack.engineering These API design guidelines are great if you’re figuring out how you might want to make an API that can scale! Enjoying legacy – modern Java in Android apps dev.to Even though many Android apps have moved to use Kotlin under the hood, Java is still incredibly prevalent, and it’s important to write it in a modern way. Onboard, organize, and bring your team up to speed in a jiffy. Try Stack Overflow for Teams. Tags: newsletter, the overflow The Stack Overflow Podcast is a weekly conversation about working in software development, learning to code, and the art and culture of computer programming. Related code-for-a-living August 9, 2021 How writing can advance your career as a developer “In their ?rst few years on the job, engineers spend roughly 30% of their workday writing, while engineers in middle management write for 50% to 70% of their day; those in senior management reportedly spend over 70% and as much as 95% of their day writing.” - Jon Leydens Karl Hughes Content Marketer code-for-a-living August 11, 2021 The strange domain names that developers bought Not every domain is serious business. Here's a few of the fun ones that we at Stack Overflow owned, as well as those owned by our community. Ryan Donovan Content Marketer newsletter July 16, 2021 The Overflow #82: Best practices for comments Welcome to ISSUE #82 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: why you should mentor others, does GPL apply to neural network models, and hacking the React AST. From the blog Best practices for writing code comments stackoverflow.blogWhile there are many… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams newsletter August 27, 2021 The Overflow #88: Building a better developer platform Welcome to ISSUE #88 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: we discuss the close of the Prosus deal with our CEO, figure out how to change matrix values in R, and add machine learning to our humble Jamstack sites.… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ? This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram