The Overflow #86: Dev Survey results! - Stack Overflow Blog
The Overflow #86: Dev Survey results! - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company newsletter August 13, 2021 The Overflow #86: Dev Survey results! Welcome to ISSUE #86 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: the Dev Survey results, why we describe technology in terms of a stack, and test-driven development in React Native. From the blog The 2021 Developer Survey results are here! stackoverflow.blogOur… Ryan Donovan Content Marketer Welcome to ISSUE #86 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: the Dev Survey results, why we describe technology in terms of a stack, and test-driven development in React Native. From the blog The 2021 Developer Survey results are here! stackoverflow.blog Our data reveals some fascinating trends around developers’ attitudes towards education, remote work, and web frameworks. Podcast 364: What the blast radius when your database goes down? stackoverflow.blog From Oracle to AWS to MongoDB, Mark Porter has played a pivotal role in the history and development of software databases. A message from our CEO: Communities are a catalyst for technology development stackoverflow.blog Our Prosus deal has closed, our 2021 Dev Survey is live, and we want to share our plans for the rest off this year. What’s New in MongoDB 5.0 Webinar promotion MongoDB 5.0 is generally available and ready for production applications. Join us to learn about native support for time series workloads, future-proofing your apps with the Versioned API & Live Resharding, and end-to-end multi-cloud encryption. Interesting questions What makes the stack concept useful in embedded programming? electronics.stackexchange.com This is one of those Stack Overflow answers that ended up producing a marvelous, lengthy essay. What are the benefits and obligations of joining the Federation? scifi.stackexchange.com First off, we’re gonna need to see your warp drive. What are the classical ciphers every cryptographer should recognize? crypto.stackexchange.com Are you familiar with the Caesar, the Playfair, and The Hill? Links from around the web The push for a “PBS for the internet” www.axios.com Could a non-profit, publicly funded media be possible? And perhaps more importantly, would it succeed? Knights of the Flexbox Table knightsoftheflexboxtable.com Hear ye, hear ye! If you want to get better at Flexbox and Tailwind CSS, look no further than this game! Testing React Native apps semaphoreci.com “If we want to be serious about quality, it is time to get tired of finding bugs and start preventing them from happening in the first place.” Here’s a great primer on test-driven development in React Native! Aligning a button label vertically ishadeed.com It’s 2021, and we’re still talking about centering things in CSS! Onboard, organize, and bring your team up to speed in a jiffy. Try Stack Overflow for Teams. Tags: newsletter, the overflow The Stack Overflow Podcast is a weekly conversation about working in software development, learning to code, and the art and culture of computer programming. Related community August 2, 2021 The 2021 Stack Overflow Developer Survey is here! Our data reveals some fascinating trends in education, remote work, and web frameworks. Ben Popper and David Gibson newsletter October 22, 2021 The Overflow #96: A database built for a firehose Welcome to ISSUE #96 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: what drives growth in cybersecurity questions on Stack Overflow, teaching an AI to bid on properties in Monopoly, and every talk from Jamstack Conf 2021 in one handy playlist.… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams community August 2, 2021 Communities are a catalyst for technology development It's a big day at Stack Overflow! Our Prosus deal has closed and our latest Dev Survey is live. Prashanth Chandrasekar CEO August 30, 2021 The full data set for the 2021 Developer Survey now available! Get your data here! Get your fresh hot 2021 Developer Survey data! Ryan Donovan Content Marketer Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ? This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram