The Overflow #83: Steady paycheck or solo project? - Stack Overflow Blog
The Overflow #83: Steady paycheck or solo project? - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company newsletter July 23, 2021 The Overflow #83: Steady paycheck or solo project? Welcome to ISSUE #83 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: how to get started programming with Python, why crackpots show up in peer-reviewed journals, and when flashy animations trigger motion sickness. From the blog Learning from the real world:… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams Welcome to ISSUE #83 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: how to get started programming with Python, why crackpots show up in peer-reviewed journals, and when flashy animations trigger motion sickness. From the blog Learning from the real world: A hardware hobby project stackoverflow.blog If you think your software experience will let you build a hardware project easily, you might be a bit too ambitious. It’s very different from software. Getting started with… Python stackoverflow.blog Here’s a collection of resources on how to get started using Python. Podcast 357: Leaving your job to pursue an indie project as a solo developer stackoverflow.blog What would convince you to leave the safety of a steady paycheck to pursue your own adventure? Developer Workshop: Infrastructure as Code promotion Join this workshop from AWS and the DevOps Institute to learn how to establish a successful Infrastructure as Code practice in AWS from expert presenters and hands-on labs. Interesting questions Why is SMS used as a way of verification for user mobile when it is not even encrypted in transit? security.stackexchange.com For regular shmoes logging into their streaming service, simple 2FA methods win out. How to navigate an unfair compensation situation? workplace.stackexchange.com Step 1: Stop doing work for free. How is it possible that [insert known crackpot] has articles published in peer-reviewed journals? academia.stackexchange.com One man’s crackpot is another’s towering authority in their field. Why would patient management systems not assert limits for certain biometric data? softwareengineering.stackexchange.com Do you want to tell your doctor that they’re wrong? Neither does their software. Links from around the web Web designers grapple with downside to flashy animation: Motion sickness www.wsj.com Beautiful animations on websites are so fun to see and make, but it’s also important to take motion sickness into account. The large, small, and dynamic viewports www.bram.us Viewports are changing on mobile, so you should be prepared for it! React hook for managing GDPR cookie consent state. github.com If you have to work with user data, check out this React hook for managing GDPR cookie consent. Redacted | Four Ton Fish fourtonfish.com This is a great browser extension for blotting out text before you take a screenshot. No more scribbling with your cursor! Onboard, organize, and bring your team up to speed in a jiffy. Try Stack Overflow for Teams. Tags: newsletter, the overflow The Stack Overflow Podcast is a weekly conversation about working in software development, learning to code, and the art and culture of computer programming. Related podcast July 13, 2021 Podcast 357: Leaving your job to pursue an indie project as a solo developer What would convince you to leave the safety of steady paycheck to pursue your own adventure? Ben Popper Director of Content newsletter June 18, 2021 The Overflow #78: Blockchain; hype or game changer? Welcome to ISSUE #78 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: Our first Pulse survey looks at what developers think about blockchain, why travel to Mars will be slower than it could be, and a fascinating dive into the early… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams newsletter September 10, 2021 The Overflow #90: A patent on a time machine Welcome to ISSUE #90 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: we surveyed cloud adoption during the pandemic, what to do if your 40 hours a week job needs 80 hours, and why hyperlinks are blue. From the blog Pandemic… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams code-for-a-living July 14, 2021 Getting started with… Python Here's a collection of resources on how to get started using Python. Ryan Donovan Content Marketer Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ? This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram