The Overflow #80: Introducing Collectives - Stack Overflow Blog
The Overflow #80: Introducing Collectives - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company newsletter July 2, 2021 The Overflow #80: Introducing Collectives Welcome to ISSUE #80 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: The best approach to low priority bugs, working towards a better metric for responsiveness, and introducing our latest product—CollectivesTM. From the blog Announcing the launch of Collectives on Stack Overflow stackoverflow.blogWe’re thrilled… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams Welcome to ISSUE #80 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: The best approach to low priority bugs, working towards a better metric for responsiveness, and introducing our latest product—CollectivesTM. From the blog Announcing the launch of Collectives on Stack Overflow stackoverflow.blog We’re thrilled to be launching this new product with Google Cloud and Go. Can InnerSource bring open source practices to closed corporate bureaucracies? stackoverflow.blog Open source won. Now, the OSS way of working is making inroads into new territories: the corporate engineering department. Podcast 350: A deep dive into natural language processing and speech to text systems stackoverflow.blog From virtual assistants like Siri to services that transcribe our every word, we explore advancements in computer systems that can understand human conversation and commands. Curated resources for building a successful app business www.mopub.com To build a durable app business, you need to earn, acquire, and optimize. MoPub, a Twitter company, provides unique insights for success no matter the skill level. In the EARN track, you’ll find everything you need for monetizing. Click to access. Interesting questions What is your approach to low-priority bugs? sqa.stackexchange.com Comment // TODO fixme and move on. What’s faster? Moving files from one drive to another, or moving files in the same drive? superuser.com Sometimes moving files isn’t moving files at all. Why was `!` chosen for negation? retrocomputing.stackexchange.com Math already got all the good symbols. Why do “relativistic effects” come into play when dealing with superheavy nuclei? physics.stackexchange.com Of course Schrödinger is involved&#8230; or is he? Links from around the web React Native vs. Flutter: The key differences every mobile app developer should know in 2021 [Guide for Beginners] dev.to When do you choose React Native and when do you choose Flutter? Here’s a great explainer to answer that and more. Towards a better responsiveness metric web.dev Responsiveness is hard to measure. The Chrome metrics team hopes you have some of your own ideas to help improve that. Global State garden.bradwoods.io XState is a finite state machine library that can help you manage your global state in a smart way. Here’s how you can use it with React! NuGet Package Explorer is now a Web App powered by Uno Platform platform.uno The open source NuGet Package Explorer is now a web app. C# devs rejoice! Onboard, organize, and bring your team up to speed in a jiffy. Try Stack Overflow for Teams. Tags: newsletter, the overflow The Stack Overflow Podcast is a weekly conversation about working in software development, learning to code, and the art and culture of computer programming. Related community October 27, 2021 Strong teams are more than just connected, they are communities Organizations and leaders have a responsibility to ensure people are heard, to build high levels of trust and enable them to show up authentically— all so they can do their best work. Prashanth Chandrasekar CEO company June 23, 2021 Announcing the launch of Collectives™ on Stack Overflow We're thrilled to be launching this new product with Google Cloud and Go. Teresa Dietrich community September 22, 2021 GitLab launches Collective on Stack Overflow A new way to discover and share knowledge about version control, CI/CD, DevSecOps, and all-remote workflows Jascha Drel community August 2, 2021 Communities are a catalyst for technology development It's a big day at Stack Overflow! Our Prosus deal has closed and our latest Dev Survey is live. Prashanth Chandrasekar CEO Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ? This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram