The Overflow #79: Zoom! Enhance! Super resolution! - Stack Overflow Blog
The Overflow #79: Zoom! Enhance! Super resolution! - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company newsletter June 25, 2021 The Overflow #79: Zoom! Enhance! Super resolution! Welcome to ISSUE #79 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: machine learning makes 480p into 1080p, stairs and their effect on potential energy, and how open source affects build vs. buy decisions. From the blog Zoom, enhance. There! We… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams Welcome to ISSUE #79 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: machine learning makes 480p into 1080p, stairs and their effect on potential energy, and how open source affects build vs. buy decisions. From the blog Zoom, enhance. There! We explore how to enhance the resolution of photos with machine learning. stackoverflow.blog Across alien epics and procedural crime dramas, detectives and truth seekers have repeated the mantra: zoom and enhance. It’s passed into popular culture as a much-beloved meme, but in recent years, machine learning has increasingly made this fictional trope into an accessible reality. And we’ve got the demo to prove it. State of the Stack Q2 2021 stackoverflow.blog We have had an exciting couple of months here at Stack Overflow. That excitement doesn’t change our plans for the future as detailed in this post. Podcast 347: Information foraging: The tactics great developers use to find solutions stackoverflow.blog How much time do you spend writing code versus looking for the right solution? The DevOps Institute 2021 Enterprise DevOps Skills Report page.gitlab.com For the third year, DevOps Institute has proudly fielded the Upskilling DevOps Skills Survey to understand which skills are considered “must-have,” “nice-to-have,” and “optional, ” in DevOps. Download the Enterprise DevOps Skills Report to learn more. Interesting questions Is serverless code immune to DDoS attacks? serverfault.com Your bank account won’t be. Page Object Model from scratch: Best practices? sqa.stackexchange.com The best page model is the one you ain’t gonna need. When I walk down the stairs where does my potential energy go? physics.stackexchange.com That just sounds like falling with extras steps. Is there an example of a classic aviation engineering moment when engineers had to discard all their work due to the wrong approach? aviation.stackexchange.com It’s not often that aviation engineers get to call mayday Links from around the web Inline styles as classes (lol) css-tricks.com If you’ve ever really just wanted to flip CSS on it’s head, this is a funny little snippet that has some cool technical ideas behind it. How Lighthouse 8 changes affect your metrics calibreapp.com Lighthouse 8 is here! It has a refreshed performance score. Check out how it changes up your monitoring. Open-source effect on build vs. buy hackernoon.com The question engineering leaders often have to ask themselves is “should we build it in house, or should we buy a solution?” The ultimate resource to fix URL trailing slash issues in static deployments github.com It’s amazing how a single character can change your website’s behavior. So, how can you debug it once it’s deployed? No, it’s not a semi-colon (this time). Onboard, organize, and bring your team up to speed in a jiffy. Try Stack Overflow for Teams. Tags: newsletter, the overflow The Stack Overflow Podcast is a weekly conversation about working in software development, learning to code, and the art and culture of computer programming. Related newsletter August 27, 2021 The Overflow #88: Building a better developer platform Welcome to ISSUE #88 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: we discuss the close of the Prosus deal with our CEO, figure out how to change matrix values in R, and add machine learning to our humble Jamstack sites.… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams newsletter September 10, 2021 The Overflow #90: A patent on a time machine Welcome to ISSUE #90 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: we surveyed cloud adoption during the pandemic, what to do if your 40 hours a week job needs 80 hours, and why hyperlinks are blue. From the blog Pandemic… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams code-for-a-living June 14, 2021 Let’s enhance: use Intel AI to increase image resolution in this demo Across alien epics and procedural crime dramas, detectives and truth seekers have repeated the mantra: zoom and enhance. It’s passed into popular culture as a much-beloved meme, but in recent years, machine learning has increasingly made this fiction trope into an accessible reality. And we've got the demo to prove it. Raymond Lo Content Marketer newsletter September 24, 2021 The Overflow #92: Mapping the path from engineer to manager Welcome to ISSUE #92 of The Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: mapping the path from engineer to manager, looking to the stars for encryption, and improving the junior dev experience with seven VS Code extensions. From the blog Why your… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams 2 Comments anon says: 25 Jun 21 at 11:10 Trailing slash déjà vu Reply anon says: 25 Jun 21 at 11:13 “Is serverless code immune to DDoS attacks?” wrong link (the actual one is on security.stackexchange) Reply Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ? This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram