The Overflow - Page 3 of 10 - Stack Overflow Blog
The Overflow - Page 3 of 10 - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company The Overflow A newsletter by developers, for developers, curated by Cassidy Williams and the Stack Overflow team. Every week, we’ll share a collection of great questions from our community, news and articles from our blog, and awesome links from around the web. Email settings RSS Feed newsletter June 18, 2021 The Overflow #78: Blockchain; hype or game changer? Welcome to ISSUE #78 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: Our first Pulse survey looks at what developers think about blockchain, why travel to Mars will be slower than it could be, and a fascinating dive into the early… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams newsletter June 11, 2021 The Overflow #77: Stack Overflow’s exciting next chapter! Welcome to ISSUE #77 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. We’ll lead with the big news: Stack Overflow is getting acquired by Prosus; see our first item for more information. But wait, there’s more: being a team player when your team… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams newsletter June 4, 2021 The Overflow #76: The 2021 Dev Survey now open! Welcome to ISSUE #76 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. The new Developer Survey is here! But also: precise measurements using imprecise tools and a visual walkthrough of Kubernetes. From the blog The 2021 Developer Survey is now open! stackoverflow.blogWe want to… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams newsletter May 28, 2021 The Overflow #75: Where design meets development Welcome to ISSUE #75 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: Rebuilding static sites a little at a time, telling the difference between decompilers and disassemblers, and five tools to fix security holes. From the blog Incremental Static Regeneration: Building… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams newsletter May 21, 2021 The Overflow #74: Behind the scenes at SpaceX Welcome to ISSUE #74 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: So long to a podcast co-host, it’s a good year to go to Mars, and neural networks doing the important work of making video games more realistic. From the… Ryan Donovan Content Marketer newsletter May 14, 2021 The Overflow #73: Open source helicopters on Mars Welcome to ISSUE #73 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: open source contributions take a helicopter to Mars, bug bounties cause real damage, and GitHub Actions give you a shortcut to continuous deployment. From the blog Find knowledge faster:… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams newsletter May 7, 2021 The Overflow #72: From personal trainer to frontend mentor Welcome to ISSUE #72 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. Spring is in the air, and here’s what’s in this newsletter: our CEO talks about the changes we’re undertaking to thrive long term, tips on reverse engineering, and the many definitions… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams newsletter April 30, 2021 The Overflow #71: Copied and pasted Welcome to ISSUE #71 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: we know what you copied and pasted last summer, checking out our biggest fans at rest, and the Clapper is back but in your browser this time. Introducing Stack Overflow for… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams newsletter April 23, 2021 The Overflow #70: Networked spreadsheets Welcome to ISSUE #70 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. Delve into the mysteries of superpositional drunken stumbles, the physics of the correct way to hang your toilet paper, and JavaScript that returns like a GOTO command. From the blog Stack… Ryan Donovan Content Marketer newsletter April 16, 2021 The Overflow #69: When internal devs are your customers Welcome to ISSUE #69 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. Our menu this week: branch out with Git, fade to black in old video games, and prevent code injection in JavaScript and Node. From the blog A look under the hood:… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams newsletter April 9, 2021 The Overflow #68: Our first piece of hardware? Welcome to ISSUE #68 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: we April fooled &#8216;em with custom hardware, can you use general relativity to lengthen your day, and a look at a refreshing new language for SPAs. From the blog… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams Posts navigation Previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 10 Next posts by author or Search for: © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram