Software Engineer for Group Risk Solutions (all genders) #python #bash at Erste Group - Stack Overflow
Software Engineer for Group Risk Solutions (all genders) #python #bash at Erste Group  - Stack Overflow Stack Overflow About Products For Teams Stack Overflow Public questions & answers Stack Overflow for Teams Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers Jobs Programming & related technical career opportunities Talent Recruit tech talent & build your employer brand Advertising Reach developers & technologists worldwide About the company Loading… Log in Sign up current community Stack Overflow help chat Meta Stack Overflow your communities Sign up or log in to customize your list. more stack exchange communities company blog Home Public Questions Tags Users Collectives Explore Collectives Find a Job Jobs Companies Teams Stack Overflow for Teams – Collaborate and share knowledge with a private group. Create a free Team What is Teams? Teams Create free Team Collectives on Stack Overflow Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most. Learn more Teams Q&A for work Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search. Learn more Jobs Companies Why Jobs? Applications Developer Story You’ve submitted an application. View all your job applications in one central place. Software Engineer for Group Risk Solutions (all genders) #python #bash Erste Group – Wien, Österreich On-site and limited remote Visa sponsor Paid relocation Save Save Share via email Share via Twitter Share via Facebook Report Dismiss Overview Company Developer Culture More Jobs React to this job: 0 0 0 Posted yesterday About this job Job type: Full-time Experience level: Junior, Mid-Level, Senior Industry: Banking, Finance, Financial Technology Company size: 10k+ people Remote details Employer's note: In agreement with the managers, home office is possible at any time - even for longer periods. Visa Sponsorship: Yes Relocation Assistance: Yes Technologies pythonbashsql Job description The future of banking is digital, and IT is the key to this change. Erste Digital is the digital enabler that drives innovative IT solutions for Erste Group, the leading banking group in CEE. Our service involves “run the bank” as well as “change the bank” activities. Our more than 2,000 IT experts and enthusiasts deliver best-in-class IT solutions and services to all Erste Group entities and by this directly to Erste Group’s more than 16 million customers. Are you ready to work for one of the most innovative and largest IT companies in the CEE region? Then hit the “apply now” button. The Group Risk Solution Department is the provider of the risk modelling, validation and calibration platform within Erste Group. Your Tasks will be maintaining and developing an ETL framework in Python & Bash on Unix in a big-data context (SAS & Hadoop) managing data on a Hadoop filesystem participating in on-going projects which extend the use of the ETL framework providing support for the ETL framework – handling operational incidents, root cause analysis, change management working towards automating and standardizing the operational aspect of the ETL training and sharing knowledge with other team members working with other software engineers, data analysts, and decision-makers, such as product owners, to build solutions and gain novel insights We are looking for someone, who… has done a few projects already using Python & Bash understands version control (Subversion, Git, Bitbucket) can write SQL queries and is familiar with data models in general has an appreciation of low-maintenance code, knows what defensive programming stands-for and is aware of the importance of testing can work and learn independently and is proactive in reaching out to colleagues for support is open to learning more about Hadoop or SAS to improve the ETL framework has some experience working in a product-driven environment can devote oneself to a task and follows it through has an analytical mind and is keen to grow and learn more about how big data dataflows are handled What it´s like working with us You work for one of the most prestigious brands in the country at the internationally awarded Erste HQ in Vienna, with an ambitious multi-national team and cooperate with colleagues across borders Access to state-of-the-art tech tools to make your work effective and enjoyable Discover and enjoy the benefits of Erste Group A competitive and performance-related salary dependent on your professional and personal qualifications is granted - the minimum wage for this position in accordance with the respective collective agreement is EUR 43.316,-- gross per year Erste Group considers the diversity of its employees as key to innovation and success. As employer we are proud to offer everyone equal chances, irrespective of age, skin colour, religious belief, gender, sexual orientation or origin. About the company Erste Group Re-inventing banking for everyone and leading the charge in digital transformation of the banking industry. Follow your favorite companies By selecting follow, you are opting in to receive an email digest from the companies you follow. Don't worry, your information isn't shared. Follow Follow your favorite companies By selecting follow, you are opting in to receive an email digest from the companies you follow. Don't worry, your information isn't shared. Follow Shaping the Future of Banking is Digital. Innovation, leading change, and disrupting the financial services industry has been a part of Erste Group’s DNA for 200 years. This has resulted in the Group becoming a digital banking success story with IT being an integral part of our customer service promise. Our tech team at Erste Group ensures successful delivery of innovative digital banking solutions across our banks within the CEE region. This powers our market-leading digital banking platform, George, with more than 4 million customers and provides the foundation for transformation and success into the digital era. Our diverse, international team of over 50 nationalities is agile, creative, playful and committed in shaping the future of banking. We’re looking for great people to help us deliver this promise. A dynamic IT community – Learning and doing, together Coding for scale, iterating and delivering market ready solutions as we aim to continuously improve the code-base is how we work together. Our tech specialists have their own area of focus with enough autonomy to discuss and review the technical requirements. We believe that having the freedom to create solutions can ultimately impact the financial lives of millions of customers. Benefits All the hardware & software you need to do your best work Personal development and trainings Flexible working options and home office days Good food at your fingertips Near infinite supply of coffee, fruits, sweets, and sparkling water Capable Table-Soccer and Table-Tennis opponents Attendance at Conferences, Key Notes optional Hackathon Height adjustable tables People Christina Rainer 1 Learn more about Erste Group More jobs at Erste Group Okay, you won’t see this job anymore. Undo Frontend Engineer #javascript #react.js #backbone.js for George (all genders) Erste Group • Wien, Österreich javascriptbackbone.jstypescriptreactjsreact 13d ago Limited remote Visa sponsor Paid relocation Okay, you won’t see this job anymore. Undo Fullstack Developer #Angular #Spring #Hibernate (all genders) Erste Group • Wien, Österreich javasqlspringangularhibernate 21d ago Limited remote Visa sponsor Paid relocation Okay, you won’t see this job anymore. Undo iOS Developer for George (all genders) Erste Group • Wien, Österreich iosswiftuikitswiftuigit 13d ago Limited remote Visa sponsor Paid relocation Okay, you won’t see this job anymore. Undo Datawarehouse/PL/SQL Engineer #SQL #PL/SQL (all genders) Erste Group • Wien, Österreich sqloraclesql-serverplsqldata-warehouse 13d ago Visa sponsor Paid relocation Want to get notified about new jobs at Erste Group? Create a company alert Your job search status has been updated. Are you looking for a job? When you create a Developer Story, we’ll accelerate your matches and get you in front of employers ASAP. Create a Developer Story Software Engineer for Group Risk Solutions (all genders) #python #bash at Erste Group Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Help Mobile Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Service Contact Us Cookie Settings Cookie Policy Stack Exchange Network Technology Culture & recreation Life & arts Science Professional Business API Data Blog Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram site design / logo © 2021 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa. rev 2021.11.30.40849 Stack Overflow works best with JavaScript enabled Your privacy By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy. Accept all cookies Customize settings