The Overflow - Page 4 of 10 - Stack Overflow Blog
The Overflow - Page 4 of 10 - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company The Overflow A newsletter by developers, for developers, curated by Cassidy Williams and the Stack Overflow team. Every week, we’ll share a collection of great questions from our community, news and articles from our blog, and awesome links from around the web. Email settings RSS Feed newsletter April 2, 2021 The Overflow #67: Forget Moore’s Law. Algorithms drive technology forward Welcome to ISSUE #67 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: inertial navigation, new research from MIT on who’s building our algorithmic commons, plus a conversation with Slack about APIs and open-source. From the blog Forget Moore’s Law. Algorithms drive… Cassidy Williams and Medi Madelen Gwosdz newsletter March 26, 2021 The Overflow #66: “This should never happen. If it does, call the developers.” Welcome to ISSUE #66 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. In case you missed it, Stack Overflow for Teams, our collaboration and knowledge management platform, is now free for up to 50 users. Also this week: helping Dev and Ops to… Medi Madelen Gwosdz and Cassidy Williams newsletter March 19, 2021 The Overflow #65: Building a Covid vaccine websites on maternity leave Welcome to ISSUE #65 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: Infrastructure as code, modeling UI states at OkCupid, and an update from our head of product, community, and engineering. From the blog State of the Stack: A new quarterly… Medi Madelen Gwosdz and Cassidy Williams newsletter March 12, 2021 The Overflow #64: Best practices, not required practices Welcome to ISSUE #64 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: why you get spam emails without content, building a Discord bot, and chatting with Google’s DeepMind about the future of AI. From the blog Best practices can slow your… Medi Madelen Gwosdz and Cassidy Williams newsletter March 5, 2021 The Overflow #63: What I wish I had known about single page applications Welcome to ISSUE #63 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week, Part 2 of our Level Up series digs into Python libraries, a passionate article argues Java is great for low latency systems, and the podcast team discusses the security… Medi Madelen Gwosdz and Cassidy Williams newsletter February 26, 2021 The Overflow #61: I followed my dreams and got demoted to software developer Welcome to ISSUE #61 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week, understanding communication cultures, the lack of inconsistencies in Newton’s universe, and understanding how CPUs handle negative numbers. From the blog Why are video calls so tiring? You might be… Medi Madelen Gwosdz and Cassidy Williams newsletter February 25, 2021 The Overflow #62:The pros and cons of being a FAANG developer Welcome to ISSUE #62 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week, get started with statistics in Python, improve your Xcode workflow, and make your typography more accessible with CSS clamp. From the blog The pros and cons of being a… Medi Madelen Gwosdz Content Strategist - Former newsletter February 12, 2021 The Overflow #60: Sequencing DNA with a USB dongle and open source Welcome to ISSUE #60 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week, open sourcing DNA sequencers, Clubhouse, and finding the Nth prime number. From the blog Learn to program BASIC with a Twitter bot stackoverflow.blogTurns out you can do a lot in… Medi Madelen Gwosdz and Cassidy Williams newsletter February 5, 2021 The Overflow #59: All the cool kids are licensed to operate a cloud. Welcome to ISSUE #59 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week, a detailed look at a hacking incident we saw in May 2019, the radical concept of users as people, and the question: Is dark mode optimal for humans? From… Medi Madelen Gwosdz and Cassidy Williams newsletter January 29, 2021 The Overflow #58: The ecological cost of #cryptoart Welcome to ISSUE #58 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week, the unreasonable ecological cost of #cryptoart, why nobody is practicing continuous deployment, and our new feature: personalized feeds on Stack Overflow for Teams. From the blog Personalized feeds now… Medi Madelen Gwosdz and Cassidy Williams newsletter January 22, 2021 The Overflow #57: /dev/null on demand Welcome to ISSUE #57 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week, teach your kids coding basics with fun apps, draw straight lines by hand, and recreate Minecraft with React in about an hour. From the blog Want to teach your… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams Posts navigation Previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 … 10 Next posts by author or Search for: © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram