The Overflow - Page 6 of 10 - Stack Overflow Blog
The Overflow - Page 6 of 10 - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company The Overflow A newsletter by developers, for developers, curated by Cassidy Williams and the Stack Overflow team. Every week, we’ll share a collection of great questions from our community, news and articles from our blog, and awesome links from around the web. Email settings RSS Feed newsletter October 30, 2020 The Overflow #45: What we call CI/CD is actually only CI. Welcome to ISSUE #45 of the Overflow! This week: why the meaning of 60Hz depends on whether you are a monitor or a lightbulb, how the community team smashed 631 tickets in just two weeks, and why what we call CI/CD is actually only CI. Medi Madelen Gwosdz Content Strategist - Former newsletter October 23, 2020 The Overflow #44: Machine learning in production Welcome to ISSUE #44 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week, get in the fast lane and start pooling your database connections, make a CPU out of electronic components drawn by hand on paper, and learn to toggle multiple property… Medi Madelen Gwosdz Content Strategist - Former newsletter October 16, 2020 The Overflow #43: Simulated keyboards Welcome to ISSUE #43 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week, we’re coding for the long game, learning the difference between cats and not cats, and translating our favorite JRPGs into English. From the blog Play the long game when… Ryan Donovan Content Marketer newsletter October 9, 2020 The Overflow #42: Bugs vs. corruption Welcome to ISSUE #42 of the Overflow: Spooktober Edition! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: how we’re using our own products, the difference between bugs and corruption, and how Flash games changed the video game industry. From the blog How Stackers ditched the… Ryan Donovan Content Marketer newsletter October 2, 2020 The Overflow #41: Satisfied with your own code Welcome to ISSUE #41 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week is pumpkin-spiced so your code can easily fall into your commits. We’ve got bushels of goodies this week: what our chief product and technology officer learned from hiring hundreds… Ryan Donovan Content Marketer code-for-a-living September 25, 2020 The Overflow #40: Tech in “Rest of the World” Welcome to ISSUE #39 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. It’s a big, round milestone, so we’re celebrating the way we always do: giving you the scoop on future robo-coders, getting names for lonely lists, and marking the moment when Moment.js… Ryan Donovan Content Marketer newsletter September 18, 2020 The Overflow #39: Breaking leases in Silicon Valley Welcome to ISSUE #39 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. For your consideration: micro frontends, the ancient computer hardware making a cameo beside James Bond, and a time-lapse of the most popular website rankings since 1993. From the blog Can one… Ryan Donovan Content Marketer newsletter September 11, 2020 The Overflow #38: More threads than cores Welcome to ISSUE #38 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week, a look at the staying power of object-oriented programming, the olden days of backing up a hard drive to a ton of CDs, the top five most irritating web… Ryan Donovan Content Marketer newsletter September 4, 2020 The Overflow #37: Bloatware, memory hog, or monolith September 2020 Welcome to ISSUE #37 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. Thrill to the veteran Stack Overflow engineer who walks like a noob! Gasp at the 2000-year-old temperature reading! Marvel at the GitHub README that writes itself!… Ryan Donovan Content Marketer newsletter August 28, 2020 The Overflow #36: Community-a-thon August 2020 Welcome to ISSUE #36 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. In the US, it’s the dog days of summer, which we imagine dogs are excited about. Read on for personal development nerds, creating secure voting systems… Ryan Donovan Content Marketer newsletter August 21, 2020 The Overflow #35: Silicon Valley Exodus Welcome to ISSUE #35 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. This week: the release of React 17, hunting scammers by reversing the remote desktop connection, and the growing developer exodus from San Francisco. From the blog Stack Overflow… Ryan Donovan Content Marketer Posts navigation Previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Next posts by author or Search for: © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram