Teresa Dietrich, Stack Overflow Blog
Teresa Dietrich, Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company Teresa Dietrich company June 23, 2021 Announcing the launch of Collectives™ on Stack Overflow We're thrilled to be launching this new product with Google Cloud and Go. Teresa Dietrich company June 16, 2021 State of the Stack Q2 2021 We have had an exciting couple of months here at Stack Overflow. That excitement doesn't change our plans for the future, detailed in this post. Teresa Dietrich company March 17, 2021 Stack Overflow for Teams is now free forever for up to 50 users Stack Overflow for Teams, our collaboration platform for building a knowledge base inside your organization, is now free. Teresa Dietrich company March 10, 2021 State of the Stack: a new quarterly update on community and product Teresa Dietrich leads Product, Community, and Engineering at Stack Overflow. She will be posting quarterly updates laying out key accomplishments and future goals. Teresa Dietrich careers October 27, 2020 Making the most of your one-on-one with your manager or other leadership As many offices go fully remote, learning how to approach key meetings with your manager can pay big dividends. Teresa Dietrich careers September 23, 2020 What I learned from hiring hundreds of engineers can help you land your next role Our CTO shares her process for selecting who to hire, and offers insight on how developers can position themselves for success. Teresa Dietrich company August 10, 2020 Stack Overflow for Teams has a new kind of content – Articles A new tool for bringing your organization's essential knowledge together in an easy-to-search platform. Teresa Dietrich company April 8, 2020 Q2 Community Roadmap Back in February, we shared our Q1 Community Roadmap with you. In that post, we described our four roadmap themes which will continue throughout the year. In our commitment to provide transparency, we will continue to share our roadmaps each quarter. So without further ado, here is our Q2 Community Roadmap: Q2 2020 April May… Teresa Dietrich company March 3, 2020 Critical tools united for a better developer workflow By creating a centralized knowledge management ecosystem, companies are able to build a natural and sustainable culture of transparency, encouraging collaboration by improving access to information. Teresa Dietrich community February 25, 2020 Sharing our first quarter 2020 community roadmap Editor’s note: You can discuss this post on Meta here: https://meta.stackexchange.com/questions/344178/the-q1-2020-community-roadmap-is-on-the-blog/344209 As we work to improve our relationship and communications with our users, we want to share with you our community roadmap each quarter, so once every three months. Even though we are halfway through this quarter, we wanted to share with you what we… Teresa Dietrich posts by author or Search for: © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram