Stack Overflow for Teams is now free forever for up to 50 users - Stack Overflow Blog
Stack Overflow for Teams is now free forever for up to 50 users - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company company March 17, 2021 Stack Overflow for Teams is now free forever for up to 50 users Stack Overflow for Teams, our collaboration platform for building a knowledge base inside your organization, is now free. Teresa Dietrich I’m excited to announce the launch of our Free plan on Stack Overflow for Teams starting today. What you need to know Our private knowledge sharing and collaboration platform, Stack Overflow for Teams, is now free for up to 50 users. No credit card is required to start your Team, and it’s free forever. Our Free plan includes ChatOps integrations to Slack and Microsoft Teams. We have invested in a guided onboarding process to help admins and users experience value quickly and efficiently. Our Basic customers now get access to single sign-on (SSO) for an easy and secure login experience. If you aren’t familiar with Stack Overflow for Teams, it combines the best features of the public Stack Overflow platform with features tailored for companies who need a private knowledge sharing and async collaboration platform. Check out our Product Tour page to learn more about these features. With Stack Overflow for Teams being a flexible platform, we’ve seen customers use it for everything from helping onboard new employees, driving innersource initiatives, enabling cloud or platform migration efforts, a self-serve help center to reduce tickets, and so much more. Since launching Teams in 2018, we have added thousands of customers ranging in size and use cases including Microsoft, Expensify, Box, Instacart, and Unqork. Developers and technologists love our Teams platform because they spend less time answering the same questions over and over again and can unblock their colleagues while reducing their own disruptions. The open source ethos that is foundational to this network was an inspiration for our new free offering. We’re excited to enable those who are working towards a common goal to develop a collective knowledge base. I truly believe those in our technology community will find value from our free, private environment. Whether it’s in a startup, a side project, user group, open source project or hackathon, these communities can now ask questions that might be off-topic to our public site, but are essential to their knowledge base. We know that sharing knowledge and collaboration is critical to companies and teams of all sizes. We also know people need a large enough group and time to see the impact and value of a knowledge sharing and collaboration platform like Stack Overflow for Teams. Our previous 30 day free trial of our Basic tier wasn’t long enough. Now, anyone can experience Stack Overflow for Teams free with a significantly sized group for as long as they need. With the roll out of our new Free plan, we’ve enriched our Basic plan to now include a single sign-on (SSO) without changing the current price. SSO allows users seamless and secure access to our critical platform anywhere, anytime across all of our paid products. If you want to know more about all of our plans, learn more here. Start your free Team Create a free Team by following the link, and invite with your colleagues or a group of people you’re looking to collaborate with. Tags: announcements The Stack Overflow Podcast is a weekly conversation about working in software development, learning to code, and the art and culture of computer programming. Related company June 16, 2021 State of the Stack Q2 2021 We have had an exciting couple of months here at Stack Overflow. That excitement doesn't change our plans for the future, detailed in this post. Teresa Dietrich company November 2, 2021 Our new and enhanced Microsoft Teams integration With new features and tweaks to the Stack Overflow for Teams integration with Microsoft Teams, we’re sure that the new and improved Version 2 will come in handy. This article provides additional context around the evolution of this integration and how it might be useful to your organization! Vasudha Swaminathan company May 3, 2021 Find knowledge faster: New Articles features We've made the Articles in Stack Overflow for Teams even better. With these updates, knowledge becomes even easier to find, content becomes better, and the experience becomes more enhanced. Lori Colston Sr. Product Marketing Manager newsletter May 7, 2021 The Overflow #72: From personal trainer to frontend mentor Welcome to ISSUE #72 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. Spring is in the air, and here’s what’s in this newsletter: our CEO talks about the changes we’re undertaking to thrive long term, tips on reverse engineering, and the many definitions… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams 13 Comments JonH says: 17 Mar 21 at 12:52 What about existing customers will we no longer be charged? Reply Chris Schaller says: 17 Mar 21 at 6:32 Apparently we have to go into the account billing and “Downgrade” to the _Free_ plan. Reply Lawrence Cherone says: 18 Mar 21 at 1:01 Untested, but looks like SSO is included with core functionality in Basic and other additional features are only available with a paid subscription (Business, Enterprise) Articles, Collections, User groups, Dashboard etc. See coloured tags in the shared product link in the post next to each feature. tbh though, free or not most VCS have issue trackers, wikis, kanbans, snippets and whatnots for developers.. it’s unclear the target market, as for non-developer departments, there are a plethora of OSS tools more features and integrations. Reply Sheldon Hull says: 17 Mar 21 at 5:25 WOW! I wish this had happened in the past, as the adoption/cost curve was so high I had to move on. This is a really great move and I’m excited to see more places adopt this type of approach. Nice move and I hope it nets a lot of new Enterprise customers after they feel safer getting used to it with the lower tier. Reply Chris Schaller says: 17 Mar 21 at 6:30 How does this affect existing accounts? Whilst this is great news my plan says it is still going to renew at the previous rate, even though my current plan says it is $0? Reply Adam says: 17 Mar 21 at 9:11 Where is the data/questions/answers hosted? Can we retrieve or remove them from the server if we decide to not use Teams later? How do we protect any internal IP that is posted internally? Reply Ryan says: 18 Mar 21 at 9:08 How about rebranding it so it doesn’t share a name with Microsoft Teams? Which already exists at all the companies using the O365 environment…which are many. Reply Mariano Pardo says: 25 Mar 21 at 5:48 If this had been free 1 year ago, I’d have used it. But now we have GitHub discussions. We already use GitHub, and we don’t have the need to onboard with a different service, at least for a two-pizza size team ???? Reply Alex D says: 8 Apr 21 at 9:08 Congratulations. This just allowed me to convinced the management to give a try to this product, as the initiative was put on hold due to initial costs. Of course, the long term solution will be at least the Basic Plan, but this Free plan allows to show that it works before pouring money in something that might fail (the community building that is). Thanks. Reply Mike says: 7 May 21 at 12:48 How many Teams can be created? I work in education and it would be great to create 2-3 small teams, each having roughly 10-12 members (one team for each class I am currently teaching) so my students can collaborate and ask/answer in their own private space? This would also be a first good step for them to start networking, becoming familiar with SO, learn how to ask and answer properly… Asked the other way round: can ONE account be a member of multiple teams? (my account for instance should be a member of each class’ team) And I would also like to create the class teams, as sometimes students join or leave a course, so I need to add/remove members of the team. Reply Ryan Donovan says: 7 May 21 at 3:00 You can join multiple Teams, yes. As an Admin and the creator of a free Team, you can create up to 4 Teams total. If a user tries to create a 5th free account, they will be directed to sign up for our paying Basic tier and will be required to put in a credit card. Reply Clinton kegode says: 11 Aug 21 at 5:45 I would like to be part of the team Reply centroid says: 8 Sep 21 at 11:10 I love stackoverflow in general and for teams specifically. It would be great if the interface could be changed to other languages (german, french, etc.). In some organizations that might facilitate the introduction of stackoverflow for teams. Reply Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ? This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram