Careers - Stack Overflow Blog
Careers - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company Careers careers October 27, 2020 Making the most of your one-on-one with your manager or other leadership As many offices go fully remote, learning how to approach key meetings with your manager can pay big dividends. Teresa Dietrich careers September 23, 2020 What I learned from hiring hundreds of engineers can help you land your next role Our CTO shares her process for selecting who to hire, and offers insight on how developers can position themselves for success. Teresa Dietrich careers September 10, 2019 How This Git Whiz Grew His Career Through Stack Overflow Sascha Wolf started using Stack Overflow as resource for homework help. But it quickly became his community, and a path to new career opportunities. Medi Madelen Gwosdz Content Strategist - Former careers September 28, 2016 Is an Early Stage Startup Right for You? Chances are you’ve thought about going to work for a startup. If you’re in software, you’re surrounded by startup chatter. Who’s hot, who’s funded, who’s the next Twilio. Maybe you’ve fielded an offer or two from startups sure they’re about to be the next Silicon Valley unicorn. Or maybe you haven’t, but you’d like to.… Alyssa Mazzina Marketing (Former) careers January 27, 2015 Targeted Jobs for Stack Overflow Stack Overflow Careers was announced five years ago with a simple mission statement: We believe that every professional programmer should have a job they love To help you find a job you love, we need to match you with the right job at the right time. We do that by helping you create a profile… Will Cole Director of Talent Product (former) careers August 12, 2013 Finding a Great Company We launched Stack Overflow Careers with the goal of fixing how companies hire developers. Traditional resumes only tell half the story, so we created Careers 2.0 Profiles to fill in the gaps. A few months ago, we released Company Pages with the goal of reinventing the traditional job listing the same way we reinvented the… David Fullerton President and Chief Technology Officer (former) careers May 20, 2013 Company pages on Careers 2.0 Stack Overflow has always had a strong focus on individual merit. Although collaboration is encouraged to some extent by the editing features, attribution on posts and the design of user profiles all tend to emphasize rugged individuality, that lone wolf toiling away at a keyboard. But most of us don’t actually work that way. We’re… Josh Heyer Community Manager (former) careers April 15, 2013 Introducing our Careers 2.0 Employer Resource Center When we launched Careers 2.0 back in 2011, we set out with a goal: make the job search process better for the millions of programmers who visit our site every month. Part of achieving this goal is educating employers about what you want from them. In the past, our annual user survey helped us help… Bethany Marzewski Marketing (Former) careers December 12, 2012 Stack Overflow localizes Careers 2.0 in German After months of work from our dev team, last week marked the official launch of our first localized site with Careers 2.0 in German. We celebrated the occasion in style on December 5 with a blow-out party at Betahaus in Berlin complete with product demos, free food, free t-shirts, oh, and German beer of course.… Bethany Marzewski Marketing (Former) careers October 1, 2012 Join the Stack Exchange team – we’re hiring! We’re growing like crazy! Between launching exciting new sites, developing new features and promotions for existing ones, and branching out geographically, Stack Exchange can use all the help it can get – so we’re currently hiring for seven (7!) different positions, from developers to designers to sales to… well, just look at the list yourself:… David Fullerton President and Chief Technology Officer (former) careers March 28, 2012 Careers 2.0 New Features for Hiring Developers Stack Overflow Careers 2.0 re-launched a year ago, and since then we’ve been steadily making improvements to it. While we’ve added a lot of new features for developers to find great jobs and show off their stuff, we’ve been a bit…neglectful of the employer side. Well, not any more. We’ve just wrapped up a big… David Fullerton President and Chief Technology Officer (former) Posts navigation 1 2 3 Next posts by author or Search for: © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram