Critical tools united for a better developer workflow - Stack Overflow Blog
Critical tools united for a better developer workflow - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company company March 3, 2020 Critical tools united for a better developer workflow By creating a centralized knowledge management ecosystem, companies are able to build a natural and sustainable culture of transparency, encouraging collaboration by improving access to information. Teresa Dietrich Thousands of you, developers and technologists around the world, work at organizations that use Stack Overflow for Teams to collaborate, harness knowledge, and share information. (And if you don’t, why not? You can try it for free!) Our Teams product was built in response to companies like Microsoft, Zapier, and Bloomberg asking for a way to give their technical teams a platform to share information that doesn’t get lost in email, chat threads, or wikis. When I joined Stack Overflow earlier this year, I joined an organization that is passionate about streamlining and improving the developer workflow. Hence the focus on bringing key integrations to Stack Overflow for Teams like Okta, Microsoft Teams, and Slack. Today, I’m happy to announce that we’re integrating Teams with two more critical tools in the modern workflow: Jira and GitHub. Stack Overflow for Teams is the central source of truth for tech knowledge within an organization. By integrating with key tools, teams are able to find answers regardless of where the information lives. By creating a centralized knowledge management ecosystem, companies are able to build a natural and sustainable culture of transparency, encouraging collaboration by improving access to information. GitHub and Jira just made sense to bring on board as we work to help developers avoid context switching and get stuff done. We look forward to enhancing our current integrations and providing more ways for teams to collaborate, share knowledge, and find information when it’s needed most. If you haven’t already, check out Stack Overflow for Teams and our integrations with Microsoft Teams, Jira, Slack, Okta, and GitHub. Tags: announcements, integrations, jira, stack overflow for teams, stackoverflow The Stack Overflow Podcast is a weekly conversation about working in software development, learning to code, and the art and culture of computer programming. Related company November 2, 2021 Our new and enhanced Microsoft Teams integration With new features and tweaks to the Stack Overflow for Teams integration with Microsoft Teams, we’re sure that the new and improved Version 2 will come in handy. This article provides additional context around the evolution of this integration and how it might be useful to your organization! Vasudha Swaminathan community August 2, 2021 Communities are a catalyst for technology development It's a big day at Stack Overflow! Our Prosus deal has closed and our latest Dev Survey is live. Prashanth Chandrasekar CEO newsletter June 11, 2021 The Overflow #77: Stack Overflow’s exciting next chapter! Welcome to ISSUE #77 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. We’ll lead with the big news: Stack Overflow is getting acquired by Prosus; see our first item for more information. But wait, there’s more: being a team player when your team… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams company June 16, 2021 State of the Stack Q2 2021 We have had an exciting couple of months here at Stack Overflow. That excitement doesn't change our plans for the future, detailed in this post. Teresa Dietrich 2 Comments EdF says: 3 Mar 20 at 3:13 bitbucket? gitlab? Reply computercarguy says: 4 Mar 20 at 4:24 This reads more like an advertisement than an actual, useful article. Reply Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ? This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram