announcements Archives - Stack Overflow Blog
announcements Archives - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company community August 2, 2021 Communities are a catalyst for technology development It's a big day at Stack Overflow! Our Prosus deal has closed and our latest Dev Survey is live. Prashanth Chandrasekar CEO company June 23, 2021 Announcing the launch of Collectives™ on Stack Overflow We're thrilled to be launching this new product with Google Cloud and Go. Teresa Dietrich company June 16, 2021 State of the Stack Q2 2021 We have had an exciting couple of months here at Stack Overflow. That excitement doesn't change our plans for the future, detailed in this post. Teresa Dietrich company March 17, 2021 Stack Overflow for Teams is now free forever for up to 50 users Stack Overflow for Teams, our collaboration platform for building a knowledge base inside your organization, is now free. Teresa Dietrich so-for-teams January 21, 2021 Personalized feeds now available on Teams Stay up-to-date on your teams questions and answers with the new For You feed. Lori Colston Sr. Product Marketing Manager community October 28, 2020 Communities and Connections will power our growth in 2021 Our CEO looks back on his first 12 months at Stack Overflow and shares his thoughts on what we're planning for the future. Prashanth Chandrasekar CEO the-loop October 21, 2020 The Loop: Our Community Roadmap for Q4 2020 We review our ticket smash event, lay out our roadmap for Q4, and talk about what we've been learning from our moderators. Sara Chipps Director of Product, Community - Former podcast August 25, 2020 Podcast 263: turning our employees into Stack users Which veteran developer has been masquerading as a brand new Stack Overflow user? Ben Popper Director of Content company July 28, 2020 Our Series E Funding – An Inflection Point to Accelerate the Realization of our Mission This is my third in a series of quarterly CEO blog posts. I'm excited to share some very positive updates. Prashanth Chandrasekar CEO code-for-a-living June 25, 2020 How does spam protection work on Stack Exchange? If you put a textbox on the Internet, someone will put spam in it. If you put a textbox on a site that gets millions of hits a day, lots of someones will put lots of spam in it. So Stack Exchange uses multiple layers to block all the spam coming in. ArtOfCode Content Marketer community June 17, 2020 The Loop, June 2020: Defining the Stack Community If you have been active on the Stack Exchange network (especially the Meta sites) or have been a reader of this blog for any significant amount of time, you will see the term Community used quite often. But who is a member of the Community? Why is the Community important? The answer to this will probably depend on who you ask. Yaakov Ellis Principal Web Developer & Community Advocate Posts navigation 1 2 3 4 5 6 Next posts by author or Search for: © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram