Personalized feeds now available on Teams - Stack Overflow Blog
Personalized feeds now available on Teams - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company so-for-teams January 21, 2021 Personalized feeds now available on Teams Stay up-to-date on your teams questions and answers with the new For You feed. Lori Colston Sr. Product Marketing Manager Internal information is constantly evolving. Oftentimes, it’s challenging to keep up with the latest information. Between writing code, PRs, testing, active deploys, and so much more, there can be an overflowing number of things on your team’s plate. That’s why we’re excited to share the launch of a new feature within Stack Overflow for Teams: For You. For You is a personalized feed that displays in every Team user’s instance. It offers actions and alerts to keep your knowledge base up-to-date. This new feed replaces the current inbox with the goal of enabling users to get tasks done more efficiently. How does it work? For You can be found within the left-hand navigation bar. The highlighted number represents the outstanding tasks to help users uncover and contribute more knowledge within their Team. Making these activities easy to find helps to ensure content doesn’t go stale and streamlines your user’s knowledge sharing tasks. No setup is required, and the new feature is available to our Basic and Business customers today and coming soon to Enterprise customers in the upcoming 2021.1 release. To learn more about For You and the other features available on Teams, visit our features page or sign up for a free trial. Tags: announcements, new features, stack overflow for teams, stackoverflow The Stack Overflow Podcast is a weekly conversation about working in software development, learning to code, and the art and culture of computer programming. Related company November 2, 2021 Our new and enhanced Microsoft Teams integration With new features and tweaks to the Stack Overflow for Teams integration with Microsoft Teams, we’re sure that the new and improved Version 2 will come in handy. This article provides additional context around the evolution of this integration and how it might be useful to your organization! Vasudha Swaminathan company November 17, 2021 Introducing Content Health, a new way to keep the knowledge base up-to-date We’re thrilled to announce a new and foundational feature, Content Health, that helps to intelligently identify and surface potentially outdated or inaccurate knowledge—content that needs to change. Lori Colston Sr. Product Marketing Manager company June 16, 2021 State of the Stack Q2 2021 We have had an exciting couple of months here at Stack Overflow. That excitement doesn't change our plans for the future, detailed in this post. Teresa Dietrich company May 3, 2021 Find knowledge faster: New Articles features We've made the Articles in Stack Overflow for Teams even better. With these updates, knowledge becomes even easier to find, content becomes better, and the experience becomes more enhanced. Lori Colston Sr. Product Marketing Manager Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ? This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram