SO for Teams - Stack Overflow Blog
SO for Teams - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company SO for Teams company November 17, 2021 Introducing Content Health, a new way to keep the knowledge base up-to-date We’re thrilled to announce a new and foundational feature, Content Health, that helps to intelligently identify and surface potentially outdated or inaccurate knowledge—content that needs to change. Lori Colston Sr. Product Marketing Manager company May 3, 2021 Find knowledge faster: New Articles features We've made the Articles in Stack Overflow for Teams even better. With these updates, knowledge becomes even easier to find, content becomes better, and the experience becomes more enhanced. Lori Colston Sr. Product Marketing Manager company April 28, 2021 Access broader knowledge with Unified Search Bringing public Stack Overflow questions and answers to your private Teams Ham Vocke Software Developer company March 17, 2021 Stack Overflow for Teams is now free forever for up to 50 users Stack Overflow for Teams, our collaboration platform for building a knowledge base inside your organization, is now free. Teresa Dietrich company January 27, 2021 Building momentum in our transition to a product led SaaS company We're excited to share our latest results and our plans for the future. Prashanth Chandrasekar CEO company January 26, 2021 Announcing the launch of our Slack V.3 integration We've made some improvements to one of our most popular integrations. Ben Kelly and Gervasio Marchand so-for-teams January 21, 2021 Personalized feeds now available on Teams Stay up-to-date on your teams questions and answers with the new For You feed. Lori Colston Sr. Product Marketing Manager company August 10, 2020 Stack Overflow for Teams has a new kind of content – Articles A new tool for bringing your organization's essential knowledge together in an easy-to-search platform. Teresa Dietrich so-for-teams May 6, 2020 Introducing Collections on Stack Overflow for Teams We're introducing a new feature to the Business tier of SO for Team: Collections. Collections allow you to group together a set of similar questions, helping to create an even better knowledge sharing experience. Questions can be arranged within a Collection so that users follow them in a specific order or not. It’s up to you. Lori Colston Sr. Product Marketing Manager promotion March 19, 2020 Coming together as a community to connect Stack Overflow is a community at our center. And communities come together in times of need. Our normal work routines have been disrupted and may continue to change for a while. We’re all still defining the new “business as usual.” We’re all trying to figure out how to maintain team collaboration when lines of communication… Lori Colston Sr. Product Marketing Manager company March 11, 2020 Building a Jira integration for Stack Overflow for Teams In this post, we take a look behind the scenes and explore how we approached building our Jira app. We’ll discuss some of the challenges, pitfalls, and lessons we learned from building this integration and look at the inner workings of our Jira app. Ham Vocke Software Developer Posts navigation 1 2 Next posts by author or Search for: © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram