The Loop - Stack Overflow Blog
The Loop - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company The Loop community September 19, 2021 The Loop: Our Community department roadmap for Q4 2021 It’s time once again for the ritual that I know we’ve all come to love: the quarterly update on Community team projects. This quarter’s projects are constrained by a lack of available technical/engineering resources on our Public Platform team, so you’ll see that we are focusing on projects that don’t require assistance from them. Philippe Beaudette VP-Community community July 29, 2021 The Loop: Our Community & Public Platform Roadmap for Q3 2021 Here's a brief recap of what we accomplished in Q2, along with details on our Q3 plans. Philippe Beaudette VP-Community community April 23, 2021 The Loop: Our Community & Public Platform Roadmap for Q2 2021 Here's where the Community platform is going this quarter. Spoiler: We’re taking on a lot of big projects. Des Darilek and Sara Chipps community December 18, 2020 The Loop: A community health indicator As the number of users grows and we improve our site engine, the social aspect of the network becomes more complicated. With all this social complexity, the CM team must daily answer one simple question: Is the community healthy? Nicolas Chabanovskii Community Manager the-loop November 19, 2020 The Loop: Adding review guidance to the help center While working on the review queues project, the Public Platform team saw an opportunity to improve the help center and create a space for more canonical articles about reviewing. By adding new, specific review queue help pages, the help center could become a more accessible and useful resource to all of our users. Lisa Park Product Designer the-loop October 21, 2020 The Loop: Our Community Roadmap for Q4 2020 We review our ticket smash event, lay out our roadmap for Q4, and talk about what we've been learning from our moderators. Sara Chipps Director of Product, Community - Former community September 30, 2020 The Loop-September 2020: Summer Bridge to tech for kids In response to COVID-19 and its impact on SYEP, over 50 nonprofits and technology companies came together to design the Summer Bridge 2020 plan to continue the program. As one of Summer Bridge’s partners, Stack Overflow designed a workplace challenge to give students a taste of what it’s like to work in the tech industry and to give us a chance to learn more about how students engaged with our developer community. Jon Chan Engineering Manager, Public Platform community August 20, 2020 The Loop, August 2020: Community-a-thon Here at Stack Overflow, we recently held our first Community-a-thon event. We wanted our employees to learn more about the SE network and how it feels to use it so they can get a better sense of what it's like to be a user here. Yaakov Ellis and Stephanie Cantor the-loop July 23, 2020 The Loop: Our Community Roadmap for Q3 2020 This quarter, we tried something new for the Community Team roadmap and worked through every idea the community team had in an initial planning session. Here's what made the cut for Q3. Sara Chipps Director of Product, Community - Former the-loop May 26, 2020 The Loop, May 2020: Dark Mode We received a bunch of requests to share how we use our feedback framework on specific features. We got excited about this, and given that we just released Dark Mode (and “Ultra Dark Mode”), we thought this was a great opportunity to show how we arrived at our solution. Sara Chipps Director of Product, Community - Former the-loop April 16, 2020 The Loop: Feedback Frameworks After speaking with subject matter experts, we decided to take a step back. In this post, we list and organize our methods of feedback into a matrix. The goal is to offer a clear framework to follow and to identify areas that could use bolstering with alternative methods. Sara Chipps Director of Product, Community - Former Posts navigation 1 2 Next posts by author or Search for: © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram