Sara Chipps, Stack Overflow Blog
Sara Chipps, Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company Sara Chipps community April 23, 2021 The Loop: Our Community & Public Platform Roadmap for Q2 2021 Here's where the Community platform is going this quarter. Spoiler: We’re taking on a lot of big projects. Des Darilek and Sara Chipps community January 28, 2021 The Loop: Our Community & Public Platform strategy & roadmap for Q1 2021 We've got big things planned. And small things. So much stuff. Check it out! Sara Chipps and Des Darilek the-loop October 21, 2020 The Loop: Our Community Roadmap for Q4 2020 We review our ticket smash event, lay out our roadmap for Q4, and talk about what we've been learning from our moderators. Sara Chipps Director of Product, Community - Former the-loop July 23, 2020 The Loop: Our Community Roadmap for Q3 2020 This quarter, we tried something new for the Community Team roadmap and worked through every idea the community team had in an initial planning session. Here's what made the cut for Q3. Sara Chipps Director of Product, Community - Former the-loop May 26, 2020 The Loop, May 2020: Dark Mode We received a bunch of requests to share how we use our feedback framework on specific features. We got excited about this, and given that we just released Dark Mode (and “Ultra Dark Mode”), we thought this was a great opportunity to show how we arrived at our solution. Sara Chipps Director of Product, Community - Former code-for-a-living May 11, 2020 Dev Around the Sun: Community and caring in lonely times #DevAroundTheSun is a group of technologists, from all backgrounds, with one singular goal: To raise awareness and funds for the treatment and prevention of COVID-19 related illness through interactive collaboration and learning within the technology community. The conference will be for 24 hours starting at 12:00pm UTC on May 12th. Sara Chipps Director of Product, Community - Former the-loop April 16, 2020 The Loop: Feedback Frameworks After speaking with subject matter experts, we decided to take a step back. In this post, we list and organize our methods of feedback into a matrix. The goal is to offer a clear framework to follow and to identify areas that could use bolstering with alternative methods. Sara Chipps Director of Product, Community - Former the-loop March 30, 2020 The Loop : March 2020 It’s easy to wonder how leaders, even the good ones, sleep at night. The decisions that come across their desks affect so many lives, jobs, healthcare, human rights. All of these decisions impact large sums of people and their ability to sustain their personal Maslow’s hierarchy of needs. It’s hard to imagine how they can… Sara Chipps Director of Product, Community - Former uncategorized November 25, 2019 Introducing “The Loop”: A Foundation in Listening We want to share with you, the community, some of the reasons why we make decisions and what inputs we listen to, as well as give you a place to weigh in. Sara Chipps and Juan M November 13, 2019 We’re Rewarding the Question Askers We’re recalculating reputation for every Stack Overflow and Stack Exchange individual based on this change. Every question upvote earned in the past will earn a value of ten reputation points retroactively. Sara Chipps Director of Product, Community - Former community October 10, 2019 Iterating on Inclusion What’s Next Our original text says: Be kind and friendly. Avoid sarcasm and be careful with jokes — tone is hard to decipher online. If a situation makes it hard to be friendly, stop participating and move on. Our new tenet is: Be inclusive and respectful. Avoid sarcasm and be careful with jokes — tone… Sara Chipps Director of Product, Community - Former Posts navigation 1 2 Next posts by author or Search for: © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram