Yaakov Ellis, Stack Overflow Blog
Yaakov Ellis, Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company Yaakov Ellis Husband, father, learner, coder and nerd. Principal Web Developer & Community Advocate on the Public Platform team at Stack Overflow. Former Team Lead for Internal Dev. community August 20, 2020 The Loop, August 2020: Community-a-thon Here at Stack Overflow, we recently held our first Community-a-thon event. We wanted our employees to learn more about the SE network and how it feels to use it so they can get a better sense of what it's like to be a user here. Yaakov Ellis and Stephanie Cantor community June 17, 2020 The Loop, June 2020: Defining the Stack Community If you have been active on the Stack Exchange network (especially the Meta sites) or have been a reader of this blog for any significant amount of time, you will see the term Community used quite often. But who is a member of the Community? Why is the Community important? The answer to this will probably depend on who you ask. Yaakov Ellis Principal Web Developer & Community Advocate December 5, 2019 New post notices: Improving feedback on Stack Overflow questions We know that giving our community mechanisms for sharing and receiving feedback is important. In her recent blog post, Meg Risdal described some of the ways that our Public Q&A product team is working to improve the way our system helps users share and receive feedback. I’m pleased to announce that starting today we are… Yaakov Ellis Principal Web Developer & Community Advocate code-for-a-living October 23, 2019 Why Devs (Should) Like Estimates The impetus to provide an estimate for development work most often comes from non-developer stakeholders in your organization. Learning to do it well can improve collaboration and coordination across departments, making everyone happier and more productive. Yaakov Ellis Principal Web Developer & Community Advocate posts by author or Search for: © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram