announcements Archives - Page 2 of 6 - Stack Overflow Blog
announcements Archives - Page 2 of 6 - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company June 10, 2020 Steps Stack Overflow is taking to help fight racism Black lives matter, and Stack Overflow is taking concrete steps to help combat systemic racism. Prashanth Chandrasekar CEO the-loop May 26, 2020 The Loop, May 2020: Dark Mode We received a bunch of requests to share how we use our feedback framework on specific features. We got excited about this, and given that we just released Dark Mode (and “Ultra Dark Mode”), we thought this was a great opportunity to show how we arrived at our solution. Sara Chipps Director of Product, Community - Former code-for-a-living May 8, 2020 The Overflow #20: Sharpen your skills May 2020 Welcome to ISSUE #20 of The Overflow! That feels like a milestone to us, and we’re gonna celebrate by giving you a newsletter by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. We’re skilling up, putting breadcrumbs down, and virtually speaking out. From the blog… Ryan Donovan Content Marketer company May 7, 2020 A message from our CEO: The Way Forward This is a key moment in our company’s history, as the whole world is dealing with significant uncertainty. Know that you are not alone. We are facing this situation together. Our goal is to stay focused on living our core values and actively connect with teammates, our community, and our customers. Prashanth Chandrasekar CEO so-for-teams May 6, 2020 Introducing Collections on Stack Overflow for Teams We're introducing a new feature to the Business tier of SO for Team: Collections. Collections allow you to group together a set of similar questions, helping to create an even better knowledge sharing experience. Questions can be arranged within a Collection so that users follow them in a specific order or not. It’s up to you. Lori Colston Sr. Product Marketing Manager code-for-a-living May 1, 2020 The Overflow #19: Jokes on us April 2020 Hey nineteen! Welcome to ISSUE #19 of The Overflow, a newsletter by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. We can’t dance together, but we can fill our heads with delightful information. This week, COBOL rides again, random sampling to determine infection rates, and… Ryan Donovan Content Marketer community April 20, 2020 How the pandemic changed traffic trends from 400M visitors across 172 Stack Exchange sites The world has changed a lot in the last three months. As we adjust to this new reality, we are seeing interesting new traffic trends and community efforts across our network of sites. Ben Popper Director of Content newsletter April 17, 2020 The Overflow #17: Legally beige April 2020 Welcome to ISSUE #17 of The Overflow, a newsletter by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams. Just like the white winged dove, you’re on the edge of newsletter seventeen. This week, we’re introducing a robot that flags unfriendly comments, checking a US nickel’s magnetism, and… Ryan Donovan Content Marketer the-loop April 16, 2020 The Loop: Feedback Frameworks After speaking with subject matter experts, we decided to take a step back. In this post, we list and organize our methods of feedback into a matrix. The goal is to offer a clear framework to follow and to identify areas that could use bolstering with alternative methods. Sara Chipps Director of Product, Community - Former code-for-a-living April 13, 2020 Socializing with co-workers while social distancing As we increase our social distancing efforts and have fewer people around us, building connections and socializing becomes ever more important for our mental health. We spend a lot of time at work and a decreasing amount of time socializing outside of it, so turning some of that work time into a social time can serve two purposes. For it to be effective, though, you can’t just push socializing initiatives alone. Ryan Donovan Content Marketer newsletter April 10, 2020 The Overflow #16: How many jobs can be done at home? This week, we're going deep on dark mode, balancing code quality with deadlines, and rolling your own chat apps. Ryan Donovan Content Marketer Posts navigation Previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 Next posts by author or Search for: © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram