announcements Archives - Page 3 of 6 - Stack Overflow Blog
announcements Archives - Page 3 of 6 - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company company April 8, 2020 Q2 Community Roadmap Back in February, we shared our Q1 Community Roadmap with you. In that post, we described our four roadmap themes which will continue throughout the year. In our commitment to provide transparency, we will continue to share our roadmaps each quarter. So without further ado, here is our Q2 Community Roadmap: Q2 2020 April May… Teresa Dietrich newsletter April 3, 2020 The Overflow #15: Dark mode! April 2020 Welcome to ISSUE #15 of The Overflow, a newsletter by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams. We weren’t kidding, this newsletter runs weekly from here on out. And this week, we’re doubling our podcast output, building models of molecules at home, and comparing Class vs.… Ryan Donovan Content Marketer community April 1, 2020 You like our dark mode? Well, wait until you try our Ultra Dark Mode Embrace the darkness. Ben Popper Director of Content community March 31, 2020 Podcast 222: Learning From our Moderators This podcast is meant to reach the Stack community, so we thought it would be great to have some of the moderators who help keep our communities running come on the show and chat about what they do and what they are seeing. Ben Popper Director of Content community March 30, 2020 Introducing Dark Mode (beta) for Stack Overflow Our most requested feature is finally coming to life. You can try out Dark Mode in beta across Stack Overflow and help us make it great. Ben Popper Director of Content the-loop March 30, 2020 The Loop : March 2020 It’s easy to wonder how leaders, even the good ones, sleep at night. The decisions that come across their desks affect so many lives, jobs, healthcare, human rights. All of these decisions impact large sums of people and their ability to sustain their personal Maslow’s hierarchy of needs. It’s hard to imagine how they can… Sara Chipps Director of Product, Community - Former stackexchange March 27, 2020 We’re launching an Instagram account We have a new social account full of fun animations highlighting great questions and answers from across Stack Overflow and Exchange. Ben Popper Director of Content newsletter March 27, 2020 The Overflow #14: Adapting our workflow March 2020 Welcome to ISSUE #14 of The Overflow, a newsletter by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams. Starting this week, we’re going to be moving this newsletter to weekly rather than every other week. Things around the world are changing dramatically every day, and we want… Ryan Donovan Content Marketer code-for-a-living March 23, 2020 Defending yourself against coronavirus scams Like a lot of you, I’m pretty glued to the news these days, trying to balance unease with calm realism. In trying times like these, we look for resources for critical information and ways to help people less fortunate than us. That’s the good news; the better angels of our nature see difficult situations—fires in… Ryan Donovan Content Marketer newsletter March 20, 2020 The Overflow #13: The History of the URL March 2020 Welcome to ISSUE #13 of The Overflow, a newsletter by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams of React Training. You can read more about it here. In this week’s newsletter: how to stay sane while working remotely, the perils of 100% CPU load, and what’s… Ryan Donovan Content Marketer promotion March 19, 2020 Coming together as a community to connect Stack Overflow is a community at our center. And communities come together in times of need. Our normal work routines have been disrupted and may continue to change for a while. We’re all still defining the new “business as usual.” We’re all trying to figure out how to maintain team collaboration when lines of communication… Lori Colston Sr. Product Marketing Manager Posts navigation Previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 Next posts by author or Search for: © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram