announcements Archives - Page 4 of 6 - Stack Overflow Blog
announcements Archives - Page 4 of 6 - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company code-for-a-living March 13, 2020 Scaling your VPN overnight We're 100% remote, as of Monday. And one of the critical tools that helps us work securely is our VPN. This article covers how we made our decision and best practices to follow. Ben Popper Director of Content stackoverflowknows March 13, 2020 This week, #StackOverflowKnows molecule rings, infected laptops, and HMAC limits These may be uncertain times, so we’ve all got questions. And on Stack Overflow and our exchanges, we’ve got a ton of great questions with fantastic answers. This week, we compare SSH with HTTPS, practice good document hygiene, and wonder if it would be dark inside the sun. Why is SSH safer than HTTPS on… Ryan Donovan Content Marketer code-for-a-living March 12, 2020 Working from home tips from our experienced remote employees We asked some of our veteran remote workers, folks who have spent years doing this, for tips on how to make remote work effective, enjoyable, and sustainable. Ryan Donovan Content Marketer community March 9, 2020 Stack Gives Back 2019 Each year, Stack Exchange donates $100 on behalf of each of our volunteer moderators. This is a long-held tradition that began in 2009, and we’re excited to continue it today. We’re pleased to announce that the donations have been made and the funds are at work helping these really awesome causes. Tim Post Community Evangelist - Former company March 9, 2020 A Message to our Employees, Community, and Customers on Covid-19 The safety of our employees, community, and customers are our primary concern. There are a number of measures we’re taking to ensure we manage to safely get through this situation while continuing to serve our community and customers effectively. Prashanth Chandrasekar CEO newsletter March 6, 2020 The Overflow #12: Plain text Welcome to ISSUE #12 of The Overflow, a newsletter by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams of React Training. You can read more about it here. In this week's newsletter, we're seeing what's up with Blazor, wondering if it's legal to crack MD5 hashes, and making the most of our JavaScript console. Ryan Donovan Content Marketer company March 3, 2020 Critical tools united for a better developer workflow By creating a centralized knowledge management ecosystem, companies are able to build a natural and sustainable culture of transparency, encouraging collaboration by improving access to information. Teresa Dietrich stackoverflowknows February 28, 2020 This week, #StackOverflowKnows outlaw wifi, GPU weakness, and neutrinos per second Time is on the March and we are ready to Spring into action (you see what we did there). And that means we’re planting a new crop of questions for you. This week, we look at the billions of neutrinos streaming through your body, why telegraphs used STOP instead of punctuation, and the asteroids that… Ryan Donovan Content Marketer community February 25, 2020 Sharing our first quarter 2020 community roadmap Editor’s note: You can discuss this post on Meta here: https://meta.stackexchange.com/questions/344178/the-q1-2020-community-roadmap-is-on-the-blog/344209 As we work to improve our relationship and communications with our users, we want to share with you our community roadmap each quarter, so once every three months. Even though we are halfway through this quarter, we wanted to share with you what we… Teresa Dietrich survey February 19, 2020 New decade, new survey goals (and reminder to take the survey before it closes next week!) Update 2/24: An issue with our email platform prevented our reminder email from reaching the majority of intended recipients, so we’re extending the survey deadline to Friday, February 28. This is your last last chance! We’re two weeks into collection of data for our 2020 Developer Survey. If you haven’t yet taken the survey, be… Erin Martin Digital Marketing Manager - Former company February 17, 2020 Community working group updates: February 2020 In this post, we'd like to talk about some of the initiatives that are happening internally at Stack Overflow aimed at addressing and repairing our relationship with our community. The Community Team Posts navigation Previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 Next posts by author or Search for: © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram