announcements Archives - Page 5 of 6 - Stack Overflow Blog
announcements Archives - Page 5 of 6 - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company newsletter February 7, 2020 The Overflow #10: The 500-mile email In this week's newsletter, we've we get right to the the point on floating point numbers, live coding that rocks, and how containers changed the world. Ryan Donovan Content Marketer February 5, 2020 The 2020 Developer Survey is now open! It’s that time of year again—we’re launching our 2020 Developer Survey. We love watching how this survey data evolves year-over-year, and this year we are focused on collecting insights from a sample that is representative of coders around the world. Ryan Donovan Content Marketer January 27, 2020 Want to write for the SO blog? Here’re the guidelines. Got an idea for that would make a good post on the Stack Overflow blog? Here's what you can do to submit your idea and work with us. Ryan Donovan Content Marketer December 23, 2019 A holiday carol for coders A holiday tale to warm a coder's heart and remind ourselves what is valuable this season. Scott C Reynolds community December 11, 2019 The Loop #1: How we conduct research on the Community team If you work on a product that’s ever benefited from research – whether that’s talking directly to users, analyzing experiment data, or any number of other research methods – you know how indispensable these inputs are for making the right decisions. But how do you decide which methods to use and when? How do you know if you’re spending the right amount of time on research? How do you know when it’s time to change your research methods? Donna Choi Community Design Lead December 5, 2019 New post notices: Improving feedback on Stack Overflow questions We know that giving our community mechanisms for sharing and receiving feedback is important. In her recent blog post, Meg Risdal described some of the ways that our Public Q&A product team is working to improve the way our system helps users share and receive feedback. I’m pleased to announce that starting today we are… Yaakov Ellis Principal Web Developer & Community Advocate uncategorized November 25, 2019 Introducing “The Loop”: A Foundation in Listening We want to share with you, the community, some of the reasons why we make decisions and what inputs we listen to, as well as give you a place to weigh in. Sara Chipps and Juan M November 13, 2019 We’re Rewarding the Question Askers We’re recalculating reputation for every Stack Overflow and Stack Exchange individual based on this change. Every question upvote earned in the past will earn a value of ten reputation points retroactively. Sara Chipps Director of Product, Community - Former engineering November 4, 2019 A Technical Deep Dive into Our MS Teams Integration How we approached and accomplished the integration between SO for Teams and MS Teams. This is a technical blog for folks who are interested in the process of how we got these two codebases to play nice with one another. Jisoo Shin community October 10, 2019 Iterating on Inclusion What’s Next Our original text says: Be kind and friendly. Avoid sarcasm and be careful with jokes — tone is hard to decipher online. If a situation makes it hard to be friendly, stop participating and move on. Our new tenet is: Be inclusive and respectful. Avoid sarcasm and be careful with jokes — tone… Sara Chipps Director of Product, Community - Former September 24, 2019 Announcing Stack Overflow’s New CEO, Prashanth Chandrasekar! Last March, I shared that we were starting to look for a new CEO for Stack Overflow. We were looking for that rare combination of someone who could foster the community while accelerating the growth of our businesses, especially Teams, where we are starting to close many huge deals and becoming a hyper-growth enterprise software… Joel Spolsky Co-founder & Former Chairman of the Board Posts navigation Previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 Next posts by author or Search for: © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram