company Archives - Stack Overflow Blog
company Archives - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company company June 23, 2021 Announcing the launch of Collectives™ on Stack Overflow We're thrilled to be launching this new product with Google Cloud and Go. Teresa Dietrich company June 2, 2021 Prosus’s Acquisition of Stack Overflow: Our Exciting Next Chapter This morning, Prosus (PROSY) has announced its intention to acquire Stack Overflow for 1.8 billion dollars. This is tremendously exciting news for our employees, our customers, our community members, and for our shareholders, and I will share a bit more about what it all means. Prashanth Chandrasekar CEO company April 7, 2021 An update on our product-led SaaS transformation I’m writing this blog post to share an update on our product-led SaaS transformation, which I’ve discussed in a series of posts over the course of the last year. It’s been a year of transformational change for all types of companies, Stack Overflow included. We are fortunate to have seen great growth from Stack Overflow… Prashanth Chandrasekar CEO company January 27, 2021 Building momentum in our transition to a product led SaaS company We're excited to share our latest results and our plans for the future. Prashanth Chandrasekar CEO company July 28, 2020 Our Series E Funding – An Inflection Point to Accelerate the Realization of our Mission This is my third in a series of quarterly CEO blog posts. I'm excited to share some very positive updates. Prashanth Chandrasekar CEO company May 7, 2020 A message from our CEO: The Way Forward This is a key moment in our company’s history, as the whole world is dealing with significant uncertainty. Know that you are not alone. We are facing this situation together. Our goal is to stay focused on living our core values and actively connect with teammates, our community, and our customers. Prashanth Chandrasekar CEO company April 8, 2020 Q2 Community Roadmap Back in February, we shared our Q1 Community Roadmap with you. In that post, we described our four roadmap themes which will continue throughout the year. In our commitment to provide transparency, we will continue to share our roadmaps each quarter. So without further ado, here is our Q2 Community Roadmap: Q2 2020 April May… Teresa Dietrich company January 21, 2020 Scripting the Future of Stack Overflow A note from our new CEO, Prashanth Chandrasekar, reflecting on his first 90 days and laying out his vision for 2020. Prashanth Chandrasekar CEO community December 11, 2019 The Loop #1: How we conduct research on the Community team If you work on a product that’s ever benefited from research – whether that’s talking directly to users, analyzing experiment data, or any number of other research methods – you know how indispensable these inputs are for making the right decisions. But how do you decide which methods to use and when? How do you know if you’re spending the right amount of time on research? How do you know when it’s time to change your research methods? Donna Choi Community Design Lead community October 10, 2019 Iterating on Inclusion What’s Next Our original text says: Be kind and friendly. Avoid sarcasm and be careful with jokes — tone is hard to decipher online. If a situation makes it hard to be friendly, stop participating and move on. Our new tenet is: Be inclusive and respectful. Avoid sarcasm and be careful with jokes — tone… Sara Chipps Director of Product, Community - Former company July 25, 2019 Introducing Custom Filters Custom Filters are available to public Stack Overflow users today! The new feature allows a new way of navigating and discovering questions that are relevant to you on Stack Overflow. This rollout is part of our continuing efforts to make the core Q&A experience on Stack Overflow better, and we’re looking forward to improving this feature and many more with your help. Jon Chan Engineering Manager, Public Platform Posts navigation 1 2 Next posts by author or Search for: © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram