Software Engineer - Full Stack at UPowr Pty Ltd - Stack Overflow
Software Engineer - Full Stack at UPowr Pty Ltd  - Stack Overflow Stack Overflow About Products For Teams Stack Overflow Public questions & answers Stack Overflow for Teams Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers Jobs Programming & related technical career opportunities Talent Recruit tech talent & build your employer brand Advertising Reach developers & technologists worldwide About the company Loading… Log in Sign up current community Stack Overflow help chat Meta Stack Overflow your communities Sign up or log in to customize your list. more stack exchange communities company blog Home Public Questions Tags Users Collectives Explore Collectives Find a Job Jobs Companies Teams Stack Overflow for Teams – Collaborate and share knowledge with a private group. Create a free Team What is Teams? Teams Create free Team Collectives on Stack Overflow Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most. Learn more Teams Q&A for work Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search. Learn more Jobs Companies Why Jobs? Applications Developer Story You’ve submitted an application. View all your job applications in one central place. Software Engineer - Full Stack UPowr Pty Ltd – Sydney, Australia A$140k - 160k | Equity On-site and limited remote Save Save Share via email Share via Twitter Share via Facebook Report Dismiss Overview Company Developer Culture React to this job: 0 0 0 Posted 21 hours ago About this job Job type: Full-time Experience level: Senior Role: Frontend Developer, Full Stack Developer Remote details Employer's note: We are currently fully remote due to Covid, however intend to transition to doing 2-3 days in an office, with the remainder remote Technologies vue.jstypescriptpythongo Job description You’ll be joining a team focused on building features for our enterprise-scale distributed energy platform to enable more customers to transition to solar+batteries and soon electric vehicles. As a Full Stack Developer on our team, you will be comfortable developing in both front-end and back-end environments. You will work with a talented team of Senior Engineers, Designers, Product Developers and subject matter experts to build fully realised features and platform capabilities encompassing front-end & back-end development, monitoring, scaling, and optimizing to make the administration of the UPowr platform simple at scale. You will be empowered to innovate, coming up with new and exciting ideas to creatively solve issues. You’ll also be asked to proactively look for opportunities to improve the design, interface, and architecture of UPowr’s platform. Our backend is Typescript and Python, and our front end is Vue.js and Flutter. What’s required? Knowledge of JavaScript and Python Experience with modern cloud & web development practices Ability to write build performant, testable, maintainable code Knowledge of open-source libraries, tools and frameworks (e.g. for logging, wiring, testing, building) Keen attention to detail and drive to simplify complex concepts Ability and willingness to learn new programming languages, frameworks and paradigms Minimum three years experience Extra things that would be helpful, but not required: Experience with Typescript & Vue.js Experience with Flutter, React Native, or similar BS or MS degree in Computer Science / Software Engineering or a related field Experience in the energy industry About the company UPowr Pty Ltd At UPowr, we believe in a world powered by renewable energy, and we’re looking for passionate people to help us make this vision a reality. We are a rapidly growing climate tech startup and our platform helps Australian households make the switch to renewable energy. We believe in building great customer experiences on a foundation of solid engineering. As well as consumers, our customers are large corporations looking to transition their customers to renewable energy households. Our platform guides customers through the journey of understanding and installing solar and batteries onto their homes. Once installed, we aim to continually monitor and optimize these assets to ensure the best outcome possible for the home. If you’re someone who enjoys thinking big, moving fast, iterating, trialling and jumping at opportunities – UPowr is the place for you. We offer a highly flexible work environment. We don’t mind when, where and how you work, so long as you show up as your best self when you do. We’re a tight-knit team that blends both remote and in-person work to ensure people achieve their preferred balance of brainstorming, collaborating, socialising but also ‘doing’. We offer big opportunities for those who are looking for them – there are no ceilings or politics, just pathways to grow, learn and evolve. Our remuneration packages include employee share options, and we work flexibly with each person to develop employee agreements to ensure you do your best work. Joel Test Source control One-step build Daily builds Bug database Bugs fixed before writing new code Up-to-date schedule Specs Quiet working conditions Best tools that money can buy Testers Code screening Hallway usability testing Your job search status has been updated. Are you looking for a job? When you create a Developer Story, we’ll accelerate your matches and get you in front of employers ASAP. Create a Developer Story Software Engineer - Full Stack at UPowr Pty Ltd Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Help Mobile Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Service Contact Us Cookie Settings Cookie Policy Stack Exchange Network Technology Culture & recreation Life & arts Science Professional Business API Data Blog Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram site design / logo © 2021 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa. rev 2021.11.30.40849 Stack Overflow works best with JavaScript enabled Your privacy By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy. Accept all cookies Customize settings