Prosus’s Acquisition of Stack Overflow: Our Exciting Next Chapter - Stack Overflow Blog
Prosus’s Acquisition of Stack Overflow: Our Exciting Next Chapter - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company company June 2, 2021 Prosus’s Acquisition of Stack Overflow: Our Exciting Next Chapter This morning, Prosus (PROSY) has announced its intention to acquire Stack Overflow for 1.8 billion dollars. This is tremendously exciting news for our employees, our customers, our community members, and for our shareholders, and I will share a bit more about what it all means. Prashanth Chandrasekar CEO As you may have seen in the news this morning, Prosus (AEX:PRX) has announced its intention to acquire Stack Overflow for 1.8 billion dollars. This is tremendously exciting news for our employees, our customers, our community members, and for our shareholders, and I will share a bit more about what it all means in this post. Prosus is one of the world’s leading technology investors with stakes in companies such as Tencent, Brainly, BYJU’s, Codecademy, OLX, PayU, Remitly and Udemy. Their massive scale and reach improves the lives of around a fifth of the world’s population. Prosus’s mission is to build leading companies that empower and enrich communities, as demonstrated by the many community-focused and EdTech companies they work with. This makes Prosus the perfect company to acquire Stack Overflow, and Stack Overflow the ideal investment in their focus on the future of workplace learning and collaboration. It allows us to continue to operate as an independent company with our current team and with the backing of a global technology powerhouse. Once this acquisition is complete, we will have more resources and support to grow our public platform and paid products, and we can accelerate our global impact tremendously. This might look like more rapid and robust international expansion, M&A opportunities, and deeper partnerships both on Stack Overflow and within Stack Overflow for Teams. Our intention is for our public platform to be an invaluable resource for developers and technologists everywhere and for our SaaS collaboration and knowledge management platform, Stack Overflow for Teams, to reach thousands more global enterprises, allowing them to accelerate product innovation and increase productivity by unlocking institutional knowledge. Prosus is a long-term investor and loves what our company and community have built over these last 13+ years. They are impressed by the SaaS transformation the company has been on since the launch of Stack Overflow for Teams and especially over the last two years. Prosus recognizes our platform’s tremendous potential for impact and they are excited to launch and accelerate our next phase of growth. How you use our site and our products will not change in the coming weeks or months, just as our company’s goals and strategic priorities remain the same. As the acquisition is finalized, and we continue to partner with Prosus, I will keep you all posted through my regular quarterly blog posts and Teresa Dietrich, our Chief Product and Technology Officer, will do the same in her quarterly community blog posts. I want to conclude by thanking all of you for your contributions over the years. Whether you asked or answered a question on our site or simply copy and pasted code, whether you once found a job on Stack Overflow or you’re one of the hundreds of thousands of users of Stack Overflow for Teams. We could not have achieved this milestone without you. This milestone is just the beginning. Since 2008, our public platform has helped developers and technologists over 50 billion times. That’s just us getting started, and I can’t wait to continue to update you on what’s next. Tags: announcement, company, prosus, stack overflow The Stack Overflow Podcast is a weekly conversation about working in software development, learning to code, and the art and culture of computer programming. Related company June 16, 2021 State of the Stack Q2 2021 We have had an exciting couple of months here at Stack Overflow. That excitement doesn't change our plans for the future, detailed in this post. Teresa Dietrich community August 2, 2021 Communities are a catalyst for technology development It's a big day at Stack Overflow! Our Prosus deal has closed and our latest Dev Survey is live. Prashanth Chandrasekar CEO newsletter June 11, 2021 The Overflow #77: Stack Overflow’s exciting next chapter! Welcome to ISSUE #77 of the Overflow! This newsletter is by developers, for developers, written and curated by the Stack Overflow team and Cassidy Williams at Netlify. We’ll lead with the big news: Stack Overflow is getting acquired by Prosus; see our first item for more information. But wait, there’s more: being a team player when your team… Ryan Donovan and Cassidy Williams community October 27, 2021 Strong teams are more than just connected, they are communities Organizations and leaders have a responsibility to ensure people are heard, to build high levels of trust and enable them to show up authentically— all so they can do their best work. Prashanth Chandrasekar CEO 28 Comments CanadianLuke says: 2 Jun 21 at 7:00 Well, I have heard of two of those companies above…. Reply Kevin says: 3 Jun 21 at 12:19 One more than I have. And the buzzword salad tells us nothing about what to expect, other than perhaps more buzzwords. Reply Kuba says: 10 Jun 21 at 6:59 The corporate world has been slowly turning into a cult, with their own lingo to top it off because why not. The way they communicate is not unlike a preacher would… Reply Essadek says: 3 Jun 21 at 7:57 “How you use our site and our products will not change in the coming weeks or months, just as our company’s goals and strategic priorities remain the same”. From community perspective we care more about knowledge sharing regardless of the SO’s business situation. It feels like we might have to pay for accepted answers beyond the coming months. Whenever there is alien partners (not original founders) users tend to have less appreciation of the asset. Reply Omar El Omeiri Filho says: 3 Jun 21 at 9:32 Ohh no! Really? Paid products? Do I read this correctly? Open source philosophy selling itself for big tech corporations? Such a hypocritical announcement. This is one of the saddest news of this year. Please dont make it sound like an improvement or beneficial for the people. Such a shame Reply Greg Gorman says: 10 Jun 21 at 11:00 They’ve had a paid product for a good number of years. Our company uses it. It is a private version of Stack Overflow. We use it as our own little version of Stack Overflow; we ask questions and then answer them. It serves as our knowledge base. The public-facing version (I expect) will always be free. But that’s just my opinion (I’m not any part of Stack Overflow, so I could be wrong.) Reply Ruffin says: 3 Jun 21 at 3:36 “Once this acquisition is complete, we will have more resources and support to grow our public platform and paid products, and we can accelerate our global impact tremendously.” But what ways are you unable to impact the globe now? That is, shouldn’t I substitute “impact” with “financial growth” to decode this sentence? My guess is that StackOverflow is doing exactly what we appreciate it doing right now. That is, THE GROWTH IS OVER. I couldn’t care less if you spin out opportunities based on the same codebase in some wholly owned subsidiary that chases cash, but within stackoverflow.com? I can’t recall anything changing over the last almost 10 years that’s a knock it out of the park, revolutionary advance. And I don’t need one! There are some interesting problems that could use solving at stackoverflow.com, certainly. How do you keep answers fresh when the answers to questions change over time, and old accepts are now objectively wrong? How do you manage moderation to ensure it’s not tone deaf (or worse) at times? Maybe even, “How can I pay to get an answer to my question beyond simple point bounties?” That last one is the only one I can think of quickly that increases revenue (and only as a middle banker, not as the primary entity paid) and usefulness of the site. But growth? What growth? Are the servers crumbling over the load? No. Are there too many low quality answers? Maybe, but it’s been reasonably easy to get past the chaff. Do you need a better mobile app for countries with less infrastructure? Well, actually, yes. Yes you do. But beyond that… Convince me this isn’t about the money, or — and I’ll give you a softball here — even *primarily* about the money. What is this “impact” primarily about that’s not income? Reply Dave Everitt says: 4 Jun 21 at 7:03 South African parent company “Naspers funded the National Party (NP) during apartheid” and “and… the NP also held 74,000 shares in Naspers in 1984”. An ethically-based takeover, then. Naspers owns Codecademy, Udemy (okay) and… the source of most of my spam: mail.ru. Lovely. This is not a community-owned resource. Reply NotANaspersFan says: 4 Jun 21 at 2:49 You forgot to mention the racist history of Naspers, Prosus’ parent company. According to Wikipedia, it “formed an integral part of the power structure which implemented and maintained apartheid”. Reply Kevin says: 4 Jun 21 at 7:35 Oh boy… this is some alarming news… Reply desbest says: 5 Jun 21 at 11:48 What product changes and money making schemes are going to be made that will inevitably hurt the users in order to ensure that Prosus gets a return on investment for its 1.8 billion dollar spend? Reply Justin says: 5 Jun 21 at 8:53 Was all of Stack Exchange acquired or just Stack Overflow? Congrats team! Reply Angry oldschooler says: 8 Jun 21 at 6:40 I want to conclude by thanking all of you for your contributions over the years. Now we can put a paywall in front of all your content. Reply C says: 9 Jun 21 at 8:16 Please just remember SO came from the community. Don’t put it behind a paywall. Reply Tencent is not a good thing says: 9 Jun 21 at 6:58 Having stakes in the organ of the Chinese government that is Tencent is not a redeeming quality. Reply zaman says: 10 Jun 21 at 2:08 i am afraid we might end up paying after that for using it! Reply Marcel says: 10 Jun 21 at 4:33 > This is tremendously exciting news for our employees, our customers, our community members, and for our shareholders For shareholders certainly, for the others I’m not so sure. Reply fwolf says: 10 Jun 21 at 4:42 Well .. the next hit in the face this year. After Unsplash getting “better”, now a buy-out announcement for SO by the company owning the DeliveryHero de-facto MONOPOLY. Good luck. Guess I have to find a new platform for Q&A ? cu, w0lf. Reply Ricardo Daniel Fuentes says: 10 Jun 21 at 7:43 I hope it won’t happen as with some of the other companies where they ended up having to be all paid services, if that happened to StackOverflow for me that would be another of those big blows as the community is amazing… Reply Ryan Donovan says: 10 Jun 21 at 9:59 To address a few of the folks worried about a potential paywall, that’s not going to happen. Teresa Dietrich, our CTO, will be addressing that in next week’s Stack of the Stack blog posts. The “paid products” that may be referenced here is Stack Overflow for Teams. Reply Reed says: 2 Jul 21 at 1:47 It doesn’t even matter. I’m planning to stop using SO all together after this takeover. Reply Theo Wilson says: 10 Jun 21 at 12:45 First, congrats. I’m not sure how many employees are at Stack but 1.8 B should spread nicely. I ain’t mad ya! Second, exactly how many ads will I have to look at before I can see the answer to a question??? Asking for a friend Reply Reed says: 2 Jul 21 at 1:39 I doubt much of the 1.8bil, if any, goes to workers, who are even lower on the corporate totem pole than they were before, even though they continue to create the value & profits. Reply Mark says: 10 Jun 21 at 2:51 I feel a bit concerned by this cornering of the developer education market by one big entity. I’d also like to have some ownership of the products that I use regularly. However, you can’t easily PROSUS stock as it is OTC, traded in Amsterdam. Reply Kai says: 11 Jun 21 at 2:22 Hi, that’s a fatal and sadly growing trend: A few big companys trying to overtake control over us / our money. Nothing can stop them, if only enough money is offered, everyone and everybody will be for sale. 1.8billion invest needs a suitable revenue. The badest of all are the public-relations, that allways want’s to sell us bad news as good ones, as an overall improvement, everthing will no better as before. Who do they think, will believe that bullshit ? Kai Reply John says: 13 Jun 21 at 7:35 Perhaps the new ownership will mean the abusive moderation system will be reformed, but i doubt it. Reply T.Sar says: 17 Jun 21 at 7:58 Alright, time to pack and move to codidact. The Stack and the other community sites came into being as a way to serve the community. Now it is becoming a way to serve big-pocketed folks. You guys are free to do whatever, but don’t expect us to be happy to use a platform that seems increasingly uninterested in the people and more interested in the money. So long, and thanks for the fish. Reply Reed says: 2 Jul 21 at 1:36 Thank you for putting my upset & concern into words so well. Reply Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ? This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram