An update on our product-led SaaS transformation - Stack Overflow Blog
An update on our product-led SaaS transformation - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company company April 7, 2021 An update on our product-led SaaS transformation I’m writing this blog post to share an update on our product-led SaaS transformation, which I’ve discussed in a series of posts over the course of the last year. It’s been a year of transformational change for all types of companies, Stack Overflow included. We are fortunate to have seen great growth from Stack Overflow… Prashanth Chandrasekar CEO I’m writing this blog post to share an update on our product-led SaaS transformation, which I’ve discussed in a series of posts over the course of the last year. It’s been a year of transformational change for all types of companies, Stack Overflow included. We are fortunate to have seen great growth from Stack Overflow for Teams, which allowed us to raise our Series E last July. We have seen steady growth from Stack Overflow Advertising. Even our Talent business—our oldest paid product, which was our only line of business negatively impacted by the pandemic—has continued to deliver value to customers looking for developer talent and developers looking for work, career changes, and more. As we continue to navigate the pandemic, we try to use our mission as our compass. Our mission is to serve developers and technologists, and we want to ensure our public platform and our paid products are doing that always. In the spirit of continuing on our product-led transformation and realizing our mission, we are making some changes to Stack Overflow Talent. We are realigning the Talent business to focus more on customer employer branding and company awareness needs, and moving away from job slots and direct hiring. This will tie the product closer to what we offer through Stack Overflow Advertising and is part of what we’re calling our “Reach and Relevance” strategy, allowing companies to reach and share relevant information with millions of developers and technologists. At the end of the day, this change unlocks greater value for our users and helps our customers better achieve success. We are continuing to support all of our existing Talent products and these changes won’t affect any of our customers leveraging job slots or direct hiring products in the near-term, only their point of contact will change. As these products evolve or are sunset, customers will be notified well in advance. These changes, however, impacted a small portion of employees within our Sales & Customer Success organization. We are highly appreciative of the hard work that went into the past decade to launch, support, and grow the Talent business. We would not be where we are today if it wasn’t for their dedication and drive, and we are doing what we can to support their transitions. We hope our users and customers will continue to see and reap the benefits of our product-led transformation, which includes Teams’ freemium that launched just last month and new, upcoming launches as part of our Reach and Relevance strategy. We are grateful for your support over these last 12 years and look forward to continuing to serve you as best we can. Tags: company The Stack Overflow Podcast is a weekly conversation about working in software development, learning to code, and the art and culture of computer programming. Related company June 2, 2021 Prosus’s Acquisition of Stack Overflow: Our Exciting Next Chapter This morning, Prosus (PROSY) has announced its intention to acquire Stack Overflow for 1.8 billion dollars. This is tremendously exciting news for our employees, our customers, our community members, and for our shareholders, and I will share a bit more about what it all means. Prashanth Chandrasekar CEO company June 16, 2021 State of the Stack Q2 2021 We have had an exciting couple of months here at Stack Overflow. That excitement doesn't change our plans for the future, detailed in this post. Teresa Dietrich community August 2, 2021 Communities are a catalyst for technology development It's a big day at Stack Overflow! Our Prosus deal has closed and our latest Dev Survey is live. Prashanth Chandrasekar CEO community October 27, 2021 Strong teams are more than just connected, they are communities Organizations and leaders have a responsibility to ensure people are heard, to build high levels of trust and enable them to show up authentically— all so they can do their best work. Prashanth Chandrasekar CEO Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ? This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram