Donna Choi, Stack Overflow Blog
Donna Choi, Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company Donna Choi community December 11, 2019 The Loop #1: How we conduct research on the Community team If you work on a product that’s ever benefited from research – whether that’s talking directly to users, analyzing experiment data, or any number of other research methods – you know how indispensable these inputs are for making the right decisions. But how do you decide which methods to use and when? How do you know if you’re spending the right amount of time on research? How do you know when it’s time to change your research methods? Donna Choi Community Design Lead community February 8, 2018 Updating Navigation for Stack Overflow, Enterprise, and Stack Exchange Sites This post refers to “Channels”, a product which is now called “Teams.” This post is part of a series on how we’re making Channels, the thinking behind the product, and insight into the process. Read “How We’re Designing Channels” and “Why Channels” for more background info. In his post, How We’re Designing Channels, Kurtis wrote that… Donna Choi Community Design Lead code-for-a-living May 12, 2017 How Stack Overflow Jobs Puts Developers First I’m Donna Choi, and I’m the Product Designer for the Stack Overflow Jobs team. I’d like to revisit and share with you our standards for developing Jobs. These are living standards—we’re constantly rethinking our approach as we talk to users about what kind of product would help them most. For a little more context: part… Donna Choi Community Design Lead community December 21, 2015 Bringing Jobs to Stack Overflow TL;DR: We believe that all programmers need and deserve jobs they love. Last week, we added a Jobs tab to Stack Overflow in order to help you do just that. What’s changed? You’ll no longer need to login to a separate account on a separate site in order to use Stack Overflow Jobs. This means… Donna Choi Community Design Lead posts by author or Search for: © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram