Introducing Custom Filters - Stack Overflow Blog
Introducing Custom Filters - Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company company July 25, 2019 Introducing Custom Filters Custom Filters are available to public Stack Overflow users today! The new feature allows a new way of navigating and discovering questions that are relevant to you on Stack Overflow. This rollout is part of our continuing efforts to make the core Q&A experience on Stack Overflow better, and we’re looking forward to improving this feature and many more with your help. Jon Chan Engineering Manager, Public Platform I’m excited to announce the public release of Custom Filters, a new way of navigating Stack Overflow and discovering questions that are relevant to you. In the past, you had a few predetermined options on question list pages to discover content relevant to you: Newest, Active, Bounties, Votes, and Frequent. In addition to these options, we also had the Unanswered questions tab for people looking to answer questions. These options have gone untouched for a long time, leaving search as the remaining option for any non-trivial needs. These tools left a lot be desired: it was unclear what the predetermined options meant, our search syntax wasn’t easily understood by many of our users, and our tools for question discovery weren’t unified. We knew we could do better. That’s where Custom Filters comes in. We’ve been iterating on this feature and getting feedback from users in public alpha. Today, we’re thrilled to be taking this feature out of alpha, and you can use it immediately. Here’s what you can expect: Unified options for question discovery You now have a single unified location within the question list interface to discover questions. We’ve updated the user interface for question list pages so that our previous options for question discovery like Newest, Active, and Bounties are all in a single place. This user interface also brings in the most-used options from the previous Unanswered tab. Fine-grained control over question discovery In addition to making it easier to discover questions by consolidating predetermined options in one spot, we’ve also surfaced the filter and sort combinations that power these options. You can see exactly what’s going on under the hood when choosing the predetermined options. Now filters, sorts, and even tag options are available for you to adjust and modify. Not only is it easier to view the predetermined options, these different filters and sorts give you more control over what questions you see in ways that weren’t possible before. Saved Filters and Notifications With your ability to customize searches based on filters and sorts, you can save the combinations you use most frequently with a feature called Saved Filters. Once you pick the combination of options you want, you can name it and save the filter for future use. You can access your Saved Filters on the right hand sidebar of question list pages and you will be notified when there are new questions added to your custom filters. We’ve been working hard on this feature in partnership with the community and our alpha testers, and we want to thank everyone that has been involved during the development and feedback process. Custom Filters are available to public Stack Overflow users today, and our Stack Overflow for Teams customers will see the feature later in the year. This rollout is part of our continuing efforts to make the core Q&A experience on Stack Overflow better, and we’re looking forward to improving this feature and many more with your help. Enjoy! Tags: announcements, company, engineering, stackoverflow The Stack Overflow Podcast is a weekly conversation about working in software development, learning to code, and the art and culture of computer programming. Related company November 2, 2021 Our new and enhanced Microsoft Teams integration With new features and tweaks to the Stack Overflow for Teams integration with Microsoft Teams, we’re sure that the new and improved Version 2 will come in handy. This article provides additional context around the evolution of this integration and how it might be useful to your organization! Vasudha Swaminathan company June 16, 2021 State of the Stack Q2 2021 We have had an exciting couple of months here at Stack Overflow. That excitement doesn't change our plans for the future, detailed in this post. Teresa Dietrich community July 29, 2021 The Loop: Our Community & Public Platform Roadmap for Q3 2021 Here's a brief recap of what we accomplished in Q2, along with details on our Q3 plans. Philippe Beaudette VP-Community community June 25, 2021 Unpacking the user research behind Collectives™ We spent over a hundred hours in 1-on-1 interviews and collected thousands of survey responses to better understand what our community and customers wanted to see in this product. This feedback shaped everything from naming to moderation, and helped us evolve and iterate the concept into what it is today. Ben Popper and Mithila Fox 3 Comments g00glen00b says: 29 Jul 19 at 2:38 I initially loved the feature, but I don’t really like the red dot that appears when there are new questions, because I used a filter for my favourite tags, and there are new questions all the time. Additionally, I would prefer being able to filter by post score so that I can filter out negatively scored questions, but I don’t think this is possible either, am I right? Reply ???? ???????? ?????? says: 29 Jul 19 at 7:05 Thanks for your site Reply George Garside says: 30 Jul 19 at 5:44 I thought this kind of functionality was what was destined for the ‘new’ left sidebar instead of yet another box on the right? The left sidebar is still taking up a phenomenal amount of space for ~4 links on most sites, so I’ve still got it disabled. Putting these filters there would make a more compelling reason to use it. I’m sure this was discussed at length on meta when the left sidebar was introduced and I thought its use for this feature was decided upon, but apparently not. How likely is it to be moved over there now? Reply Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ? This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram