Jon Chan, Stack Overflow Blog
Jon Chan, Stack Overflow Blog Essays, opinions, and advice on the act of computer programming from Stack Overflow. Search for: Latest Newsletter Podcast Company Jon Chan Jon is an Engineering Manager, Public Platform at Stack Overflow. He's also the founder of Bento, a tech education site for self-taught developers. He frequently speaks on product development, tech education, and diversity. community September 30, 2020 The Loop-September 2020: Summer Bridge to tech for kids In response to COVID-19 and its impact on SYEP, over 50 nonprofits and technology companies came together to design the Summer Bridge 2020 plan to continue the program. As one of Summer Bridge’s partners, Stack Overflow designed a workplace challenge to give students a taste of what it’s like to work in the tech industry and to give us a chance to learn more about how students engaged with our developer community. Jon Chan Engineering Manager, Public Platform code-for-a-living July 3, 2020 How Stack Overflow hires engineers At Stack Overflow, one of our main missions is to close the gap between companies and developers during the hiring process. Though you may know us primarily as a Q&A site for developers, we are also a talent platform, and are in a unique position to connect developers with companies and jobs that they are… Jon Chan Engineering Manager, Public Platform company July 25, 2019 Introducing Custom Filters Custom Filters are available to public Stack Overflow users today! The new feature allows a new way of navigating and discovering questions that are relevant to you on Stack Overflow. This rollout is part of our continuing efforts to make the core Q&A experience on Stack Overflow better, and we’re looking forward to improving this feature and many more with your help. Jon Chan Engineering Manager, Public Platform code-for-a-living September 28, 2017 How to Become a Thought Leader in Software There’s been a lot of buzz around the phrase “thought leadership” in the past couple years, but what exactly does it mean? Denise Brosseau, author of “Ready to be a Thought Leader,” defines the group as “informed opinion leaders and the go-to people in their field of expertise.” People turn to thought leaders for their takes… Jon Chan Engineering Manager, Public Platform design July 2, 2015 How We Built Our Blog Yesterday, we announced the redesign of our blog and the addition of our engineering channel. This is the first post related to engineering detailing a walkthrough of what we’ve built, and what better than to blog about rebuilding our blog on our new blog? How meta. It started with an engineering blog A few months… Jon Chan Engineering Manager, Public Platform company July 1, 2015 The New Stack Exchange Blog Today, we’re proud to announce the new Stack Exchange blog, all shiny and new! It’s been six to eight weeks in the making and we’re really happy our community can finally see it. Here’s an overview of the major changes that we’ve made to the site: Channels The biggest change we’ve made is the introduction… Jon Chan Engineering Manager, Public Platform company May 27, 2015 Stack Overflow and Andela partner to provide education beyond borders Jon is a web developer and heads up developer evangelism efforts at Stack Exchange. When I think about the impact that Stack Overflow has had on the world, it’s tempting for me to think about numbers: how many active users we have, how many questions are answered in a day, how many jobs get posted… Jon Chan Engineering Manager, Public Platform culture January 28, 2014 My First Six Weeks Working at Stack Overflow I started working at Stack Exchange (which many know for/as Stack Overflow) as a software developer just six weeks ago. This (lengthy) post is about a number of things: what it was like relearning a lot of what I know about web development, the challenges and resources I encountered doing so, and a few pointers… Jon Chan Engineering Manager, Public Platform posts by author or Search for: © 2021 All Rights Reserved. Proudly powered by Wordpress Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Channels Podcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram