How Expensify engineers save hours each week with Stack Overflow For Teams
How Expensify engineers save hours each week with Stack Overflow For Teams Home By product Employer Branding Employer branding solutions for technology teams. Advertising Get the word out to the world’s largest audience of developers and technologists. Reach 100 million+ people in tech. Collectives Unlock the power of your community. Teams Knowledge sharing and collaboration without distractions. By topic Adoption & Engagement Change management Client stories Company culture Cookieless advertising Developer influence & marketing tips Diversity and inclusion Hiring & onboarding Integrations & demos Knowledge reuse Product guides Productivity Recruiting Targeting & goals Thought leadership Go to stackoverflow.com About Blog Loading… 19 October 2021 How Expensify engineers save hours each week with Stack Overflow For Teams Engineers at Expensify go from having “terrible documentation systems” to feeling empowered as soon as they onboard. Resources Client stories How Expensify engineers save hours each week with Stack Overflow For Teams A lot of companies talk about having a flat organization, but few take the approach as seriously as Expensify. The firm operates on two simple maxims: Get s**t done Don’t ruin it for anyone else Engineers can come in and choose what they want to work on every day, which means there is a constant dialog between coworkers trying to understand one another’s code. That involves lots of face to face conversation, email chains, chat rooms, and direct messages. “People ask questions on GitHub and Slack, and those can get lost,” said Nikki Wines. There aren’t a lot of titles or managers, which means developers need to rely on one another. To help onboard new hires, the team created a wealth of documentation, but it wasn’t easily accessible. “Our documentation at Expensify has been…fairly terrible in the past,” said software engineer John Lee. “People would rather talk to someone with more knowledge than to go search through all these pages of documentation we wrote.” Over the last six months, the team has also begun using a new tool: a private version of Stack Overflow where they can exchange questions and answers and vote on the best information. “Any programmer knows how to use Stack Overflow, so to have it applied to a single code base is just that much more valuable,” said Brandon Meeks. It’s been integrated with Slack, so that when a new question appears the whole team gets notified and people with the best answers can immediately respond. Expensify wants programmers to feel empowered to work on any project, and Stack Overflow has made that easier. “Everyone has a certain amount of code base that they are familiar with, but sometimes you might know about an issue much more deeply than the so called subject matter expert,” said software engineer Ira Praharaj. “It gives an open opportunity to everyone who has the knowledge to share it, and there is no bias.” “I don’t have to go through the hassle of finding someone who knows the answer, figuring out if they’re available or online, and then talking to them. That conversation has already happened on Stack Overflow,” said Meeks. Engineers across the company estimated they were saving between two and three hours a week that had previously been devoted to hunting down knowledge. The tech team was the first division to adopt Stack Overflow, but it didn’t stay contained to them. “As we started to use it and see how nice it was to have a repository of information, we started to see it spread to other teams,” said David Drake. “Our customer support team started using it, our people success team started using it, next thing we knew, we had integrations all over the place.” Learn more about Stack Overflow for Teams Trusted by top Fortune 100 companies, Stack Overflow for Teams delivers real value for large organizations.Learn more Related resources Saving time with stored knowledge Quantexa optimizes deployment and customer solutions with Stack Overflow for Teams How Stack Overflow for Teams brought this company’s leadership and engineering closer together Flex says goodbye to disorganized and inconsistent documentation, using one centralized hub What to read next 11 October 2021 Saving time with stored knowledge Client stories 15 September 2021 Quantexa optimizes deployment and customer solutions with Stack Overflow for Teams Client stories 24 August 2021 How Stack Overflow for Teams brought this company’s leadership and engineering closer together Client stories 19 August 2021 Flex says goodbye to disorganized and inconsistent documentation, using one centralized hub Client stories Sign up to receive helpful content and resources from Stack Overflow Stack OverflowQuestions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator ProductsCollectives Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise CompanyAbout Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us ChannelsPodcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram