How to succeed in your first two weeks of Stack Overflow for Teams
How to succeed in your first two weeks of Stack Overflow for Teams Home By product Employer Branding Employer branding solutions for technology teams. Advertising Get the word out to the world’s largest audience of developers and technologists. Reach 100 million+ people in tech. Collectives Unlock the power of your community. Teams Knowledge sharing and collaboration without distractions. By topic Adoption & Engagement Change management Client stories Company culture Cookieless advertising Developer influence & marketing tips Diversity and inclusion Hiring & onboarding Integrations & demos Knowledge reuse Product guides Productivity Recruiting Targeting & goals Thought leadership Go to stackoverflow.com About Blog Loading… 27 October 2021 3 minute read How to succeed in your first two weeks of Stack Overflow for Teams So you’ve decided to try Stack Overflow for Teams. Awesome! You and your coworkers can now easily and securely capture and share company knowledge using Stack Overflow’s popular question and answer format. Resources Adoption & Engagement How to succeed in your first two weeks of Stack Overflow for Teams So you’ve decided to try Stack Overflow for Teams. Awesome! You and your coworkers can now easily and securely capture and share company knowledge using Stack Overflow’s popular question and answer format. And you’re in good company—organizations all over the world, big and small, use it to build internal knowledge bases that are accessible, and even fun to use. First-time administrators sometimes ask us how they can successfully implement Stack Overflow for Teams at their companies. If possible, we suggest inviting an additional admin to help you with the implementation and launch. You and your launch team should follow these three steps to succeed. Determine key topics that your coworkers should know What topics produce the most questions and answers in email, chat, meetings, and during the onboarding process? These topics have the potential to be reused over and over again via Stack Overflow for Teams. To discover what they are, scan chat and email, or schedule brief interviews with roles like developers, engineers, and product managers. Some examples of topics: A key project or initiative. A company product or API. A language or domain. A department or team. Common new hire questions. Common topics are key to quickly and naturally building a central knowledge base. The topics you determine will also inform the Tags that categorize questions and answers. Your coworkers will create and filter Tags to organize and search content. Resources: Overview of Tags Get help from your organization’s subject matter experts Next, invite your organization’s subject matter experts to Stack Overflow for Teams so they can start seeding 3-5 questions and answers for their respective topic or topics. Depending on the size of your company, this could be a few of your coworkers or many of them across several teams and projects. Set expectations in a meeting or communication, and make them feel special that they’re the experts at your company. Reiterate that Stack Overflow for Teams will save them time from repeatedly answering the same questions in email and chat. And if your budget allows, offer incentives or hold contests to encourage participation. If they need help getting started, share best practices for answering questions and remind them to tag by topic. The most popular questions are usually related to onboarding, best practices, and troubleshooting proprietary company technology and processes. Resources Get others to join Answering a question The more the merrier - Share the news with everyone! Once you have a core knowledge base, announce the launch of Stack Overflow for Teams via a company-wide email to generate awareness and excitement. Explain why this is important, expectations for use, and how you’ll measure success. Changing your coworkers’ behavior of using email and chat threads as a source of knowledge takes time, and should be a collaborative effort. Companies who successfully drive long-term usage of Stack Overflow for Teams follow these best practices: Educate users unfamiliar with Stack Overflow Are some of your coworkers unfamiliar with Stack Overflow and its format? If so, share this user guide with them and consider hosting a lunch and learn session with a live demo. Integrate with your chat platform Integrating Slack or Microsoft Teams enables your coworkers to capture, search, and share answers from within chat, which is a great way to surface knowledge where they already spend time. Ask senior leaders to report on activity regularly Here at Stack Overflow, our CEO sends out a weekly email that shows the top 10 employees who earned the most reputation points that week. It’s a great way to incentivize usage. Encourage subject matter experts to remind others If subject matter experts are getting asked the same questions in email or chat, they should kindly nudge their coworkers to post the questions on Stack Overflow for Teams instead. Resources A beginner’s guide to Stack Overflow for Teams Slack integration overview Microsoft Teams integration overview You’ve got this Congratulations! You’ve successfully launched Stack Overflow for Teams at your organization. We’re here to support you along the way, and encourage you to check out our Help Center for more how-tos and best practices. You’ll foster a collaborative knowledge sharing culture in no time. Table of contents Determine key topics that your coworkers should know Get help from your organization’s subject matter experts The more the merrier - Share the news with everyone! You’ve got this Related resources Guide: How to use Stack Overflow for Teams Unified Search Demo Video Saving time with stored knowledge What is Knowledge Reuse? What to read next 9 April 2021 Boost engagement with an internal newsletter (Template) Adoption & Engagement 5 January 2021 Your role as Subject Matter Expert Adoption & Engagement 5 January 2021 Getting started as a Teams admin Adoption & Engagement 5 January 2021 Your launch planning guide Adoption & Engagement Sign up to receive helpful content and resources from Stack Overflow Stack OverflowQuestions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator ProductsCollectives Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise CompanyAbout Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us ChannelsPodcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram