Boost engagement with an internal newsletter (Template)
Boost engagement with an internal newsletter (Template)  Home By product Employer Branding Employer branding solutions for technology teams. Advertising Get the word out to the world’s largest audience of developers and technologists. Reach 100 million+ people in tech. Collectives Unlock the power of your community. Teams Knowledge sharing and collaboration without distractions. By topic Adoption & Engagement Change management Client stories Company culture Cookieless advertising Developer influence & marketing tips Diversity and inclusion Hiring & onboarding Integrations & demos Knowledge reuse Product guides Productivity Recruiting Targeting & goals Thought leadership Go to stackoverflow.com About Blog Loading… 24 August 2021 3 minute read Boost engagement with an internal newsletter (Template) To get your people talking on Teams, try creating an internal newsletter. This template will make that process as quick and easy as possible. Resources Adoption & Engagement Boost engagement with an internal newsletter (Template) Introduction This is your go-to template to drive awareness and adoption within your Team - in newsletter format. Typically sent by a Community Manager or champion, this newsletter can help to get your people active on Teams. While this template has multiple sections that could be included, you should choose the sections that make the most sense to your specific goals and objectives. Voice and Tone As a Teams admin, your organization has its own culture and tone of voice guidelines. Consider factors like writing style, grammar and mechanics, and even specific punctuation and formatting. Do you want to use images, infographics or other visual representations within the newsletter? These decisions can also impact the overall tone of the end result. Key Sections - Summary Section 1 Short introduction: set the tone, preview what’s to come Section 2 Quantitative summaries: statistics, measurable outcomes, and other numbers that help paint a picture of recent or long-term impacts Section 3 Community updates: member shoutouts, upcoming events, and other community highlights Section 4 Product updates: new features, product roadmaps, and product-related announcements Section 5 Before the sign-off: a look ahead, audience asks, surveys, volunteer requests, and reminders Key Sections - Details Section 1: Introduction This section is designed to grab the reader’s attention. It sets the tone for the rest of the newsletter, and indicates what lies ahead. The introduction should be a concise and friendly welcome. The tone and style should be consistent with the rest of the newsletter. Section 2: Quantitative Summaries This section is designed to tell a story through numbers. Did you recently double your ROI, 10x your user-base or save dozens of hours through active tagging and engaged Q&As? Eye-catching, punchy statistics can help to summarize a business case or success story. What’s happening on Teams that’s making a difference to your business? It also may help to provide a short narrative that adds additional context before sharing statistics and numbers. What message do you want to convey? You might want to include period-to-date statistics or life-to-date statistics that showcase the current state of the community. These stats might include: Most active tags Time-to-answer Interaction rate trends Community usage statistics (members, searches, Q&A) Section 3: Community updates Stack Overflow for Teams exists to foster community. This crucial section can be used to draw attention to anything positive and collaborative happening within your community. For example, you might highlight: New members or user departments Leading SMEs Engaged members Interesting questions, answers or content contributions Community contributions and ambassadors Announcements Past or future events Section 4: Product updates This section is an opportunity to highlight product-led news. What new features are you excited about? What are the near-term and long-term plans on the product roadmap? What are your product, engineering, or marketing teams excited about? This section is also a handy place for demonstrating specific uses of a key feature. Section 5: Before the sign-off This section is the final place to summarize, recap, or make requests of your audience. Is something coming up that you want to highlight? Do you need volunteers, or have other requests for the community? Any final reminders before you say goodbye? Those go here. Using the Stack Overflow logo Feel free to use our logo in your newsletter. You can find the logo for Stack Overflow and Stack Overflow for Teams available for download on our design site. Ready to create your own? Follow our template to help guide you through your first newsletter.Open Google Doc Make a copy or download as a PDF. Table of contents Introduction Voice and Tone Key Sections - Summary Key Sections - Details Section 1: Introduction Section 2: Quantitative Summaries Section 3: Community updates Section 4: Product updates Section 5: Before the sign-off Using the Stack Overflow logo Related resources How to succeed in your first two weeks of Stack Overflow for Teams Your role as Subject Matter Expert Getting started as a Teams admin Your launch planning guide What to read next 21 October 2021 How to succeed in your first two weeks of Stack Overflow for Teams Adoption & Engagement 5 January 2021 Your role as Subject Matter Expert Adoption & Engagement 5 January 2021 Getting started as a Teams admin Adoption & Engagement 5 January 2021 Your launch planning guide Adoption & Engagement Sign up to receive helpful content and resources from Stack Overflow Stack OverflowQuestions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator ProductsCollectives Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise CompanyAbout Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us ChannelsPodcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram