What Product Marketers Can Learn From Stack Overflow
What Product Marketers Can Learn From Stack Overflow Home By product Employer Branding Employer branding solutions for technology teams. Advertising Get the word out to the world’s largest audience of developers and technologists. Reach 100 million+ people in tech. Collectives Unlock the power of your community. Teams Knowledge sharing and collaboration without distractions. By topic Adoption & Engagement Change management Client stories Company culture Cookieless advertising Developer influence & marketing tips Diversity and inclusion Hiring & onboarding Integrations & demos Knowledge reuse Product guides Productivity Recruiting Targeting & goals Thought leadership Go to stackoverflow.com About Blog Loading… 5 October 2021 1 minute read I’m a product marketer. Can Stack Overflow help me reach and engage developers interested in our technology? Resources Developer influence & marketing tips I’m a product marketer. Can Stack Overflow help me reach and engage developers interested in our technology? Marketing to developers and technologists is different than marketing to other B2B audiences. Reaching this group requires a sharp, no-nonsense approach and it can be hard to get it right. Fortunately for product marketers, Stack Overflow has gained valuable insight into this audience. When you spend a little time on our site, you can access the thoughts and opinions of our 100 million monthly visitors. The insights available on these sites can help you address marketing challenges such as: Driving awareness and adoption of your tool or service Understanding customer perception of your tool or service Defining and refining your personas, value proposition, and messaging Determining the right digital marketing channels to reach your target audience as part of your go-to-market strategy Delivering content to support your digital marketing efforts Understanding how your tool or service compares to the competition and how you can differentiate For even more insight into our audience, you can read Stack Overflow’s annual Developer Survey, the largest worldwide survey of developers and technologists. Nearly 80,000 people participated in 2021, providing a window into how they learn and level up their skills, as well as which tools they’re using and how they work. You can understand the tools developers are excited about using, discover how they research about new technologies, and even learn how much influence they have over technology purchasing decisions in their organizations. In addition, product marketers can turn to Stack Overflow to see which topic tags are trending among the 60,000 tags that are active on the site. Researching topic tags directly on Stack Overflow is a quick and easy way to inform your SEO/SEM keyword strategies, build technical content that answers popular questions, and identify new use cases for your product or service. Learn how to reach more than 100 million developers and technologists Get in touch today to find out how Stack Overflow's Advertising solutions can drive awareness and conversions of your product or service.Get in Touch Related resources Announcing the launch of Collectives™ on Stack Overflow How do I promote my webinar or virtual event to a technical audience? Is advertising on Stack Overflow’s Podcast right for your brand? Advertising to the developer & tech community: best practices for B2B marketers What to read next 24 August 2021 Announcing the launch of Collectives™ on Stack Overflow Developer influence & marketing tips 25 January 2021 How do I promote my webinar or virtual event to a technical audience? Developer influence & marketing tips 25 January 2021 Is advertising on Stack Overflow’s Podcast right for your brand? Developer influence & marketing tips 11 December 2020 Advertising to the developer & tech community: best practices for B2B marketers Developer influence & marketing tips Sign up to receive helpful content and resources from Stack Overflow Stack OverflowQuestions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator ProductsCollectives Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise CompanyAbout Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us ChannelsPodcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram