How to Promote Webinars and Virtual Events to a Technical Audience
How to Promote Webinars and Virtual Events to a Technical Audience Home By product Employer Branding Employer branding solutions for technology teams. Advertising Get the word out to the world’s largest audience of developers and technologists. Reach 100 million+ people in tech. Collectives Unlock the power of your community. Teams Knowledge sharing and collaboration without distractions. By topic Adoption & Engagement Change management Client stories Company culture Cookieless advertising Developer influence & marketing tips Diversity and inclusion Hiring & onboarding Integrations & demos Knowledge reuse Product guides Productivity Recruiting Targeting & goals Thought leadership Go to stackoverflow.com About Blog Loading… 18 August 2021 1 minute read How do I promote my webinar or virtual event to a technical audience? Resources Developer influence & marketing tips How do I promote my webinar or virtual event to a technical audience? For B2B event marketers, 2020 has not gone according to plan. The pandemic has disrupted the way companies approach events. Rather than cancelling all their events, marketers are coming up with creative solutions to shift from in-person to virtual strategies. As webinars and hackathons have become fully online experiences, virtual events are likely here to stay and you need to find new ways to drive registrations and promote your virtual event. Here are three ways marketers have turned to Stack Overflow Advertising to achieve their event marketing goals: Banner Advertising – With more than 100 million monthly users on Stack Overflow and our Technical Stack Exchange sites, we can drive awareness for your event among the largest developer and tech community in the world. Newsletter Advertising – Promote your webinars and other virtual events in our newsletter, The Overflow, which reaches 2.6 million opted-in subscribers. We only feature one advertiser in each issue, so your event isn’t competing for attention. Sponsored Blog Posts – Our blog is visited by more than 300,000 developers every month, providing the perfect opportunity to showcase your event in a deeper way. Here’s an example showing how we worked with Facebook to publish a post that shares a behind-the-scenes look at the developers who create the coding questions for the company’s annual Hacker Cup: The puzzle masters behind Facebook’s Hacker Cup explain how they craft the questions. Promote your event to the world's largest tech community Find out how we can drive awareness and registrations for your upcoming events.Get in Touch Related resources Announcing the launch of Collectives™ on Stack Overflow I’m a product marketer. Can Stack Overflow help me reach and engage developers interested in our technology? Is advertising on Stack Overflow’s Podcast right for your brand? Advertising to the developer & tech community: best practices for B2B marketers What to read next 24 August 2021 Announcing the launch of Collectives™ on Stack Overflow Developer influence & marketing tips 26 January 2021 I’m a product marketer. Can Stack Overflow help me reach and engage developers interested in our technology? Developer influence & marketing tips 25 January 2021 Is advertising on Stack Overflow’s Podcast right for your brand? Developer influence & marketing tips 11 December 2020 Advertising to the developer & tech community: best practices for B2B marketers Developer influence & marketing tips Sign up to receive helpful content and resources from Stack Overflow Stack OverflowQuestions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator ProductsCollectives Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise CompanyAbout Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us ChannelsPodcast Newsletter Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram