Full Stack Software Engineer at Third Iron - Stack Overflow
Full Stack Software Engineer at Third Iron  - Stack Overflow Stack Overflow About Products For Teams Stack Overflow Public questions & answers Stack Overflow for Teams Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers Jobs Programming & related technical career opportunities Talent Recruit tech talent & build your employer brand Advertising Reach developers & technologists worldwide About the company Loading… Log in Sign up current community Stack Overflow help chat Meta Stack Overflow your communities Sign up or log in to customize your list. more stack exchange communities company blog Home Public Questions Tags Users Collectives Explore Collectives Find a Job Jobs Companies Teams Stack Overflow for Teams – Collaborate and share knowledge with a private group. Create a free Team What is Teams? Teams Create free Team Collectives on Stack Overflow Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most. Learn more Teams Q&A for work Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search. Learn more Jobs Companies Why Jobs? Applications Developer Story You’ve submitted an application. View all your job applications in one central place. Full Stack Software Engineer Third Iron – Minneapolis, MN Remote Save Save Share via email Share via Twitter Share via Facebook Report Dismiss Overview Company React to this job: 0 0 0 Posted 6 days ago About this job Job type: Full-time Role: Full Stack Developer Remote details Office Location: Minneapolis, MN. Employees can also work full time from this office. Technologies node.jsjavascriptpostgresqlelasticsearchsql Job description Third Iron is seeking a Full Stack Software Engineer to join our fully remote development team to help build library industry-leading software services BrowZine and LibKey. These services connect scholars of all disciplines with the peer-reviewed journal articles they need to advance their research. Our users include millions of researchers affiliated with over 1,200 libraries at universities, hospitals, corporations, and government agencies located across 35 countries. Your Role As a Full Stack Software Engineer, you will help with all aspects of the development lifecycle: capturing initial requirements, deciding on architectural approaches, coding the implementation, and reviewing others' changes from our team of experienced polyglot programmers. Our remote-first company has been building software for over 10 years in a completely distributed fashion, so you'll be joining a team with plenty of experience putting into practice what works well remotely (and avoiding what doesn't!). Key Responsibilities Contribute to our Third Iron tools and backend systems, written primarily in Node.js and Postgres, and used by our internal operations team to manage large amounts of data from over 1,200 library customers Help shape and build our APIs, used both internally and by third parties, written in Node.js and adopting many concepts from JSON API 1.0 Opportunities to assist with our front end web app clients such as the BrowZine and LibKey, built with Ember, and our browser extension LibKey Nomad, built with React Increase your experience and knowledge of Node.js, Postgresql, Elasticsearch, CouchDB, continuous integration, and load testing. Learn about all the tools we use at our StackShare Optimize and help scale our Heroku and AWS cloud-based systems as our customer base grows to ensure solid performance for all users What We're Looking For Experience with SQL; we use Postgres to store the majority of our data, and we will continue to improve the speed of our externally-facing APIs and internal processes. Bonus if you have NoSQL experience, such as ElasticSearch or CouchDB An interest in NodeJS and JavaScript Strong communication skills - since we are a remote team, clear, timely, and frequent communication is essential Experience writing automated tests alongside your code - we rely on numerous automated tests to help avoid regressions, both at the acceptance and unit level High comfort level with source control, especially git A self-motivated developer who can work independently Interest in lifelong learning, including learning new technologies. We want to embrace the tools and techniques that help us build great software and let us sleep soundly at night, knowing our users are having a delightful experience and our servers are not catching fire People with U.S. work authorizations. (We are looking for a full-time developer to join our team so please, respectfully, do not apply if you are a software development firm looking to hire out your time) Working at Third Iron Third Iron is a small company of 25 employees, and our growth and success have been fueled by the passionate, curious people who work here. We value input and feedback while looking to minimize the interruptions of meetings, report writing, and internal emails. Understanding that work is just part of your life, Third Iron also provides great pay and benefits including health, dental, long-term disability, paid time-off, home-office stipend, and more. It's why most employees who work at Third Iron spend many years of their careers here. You could, too! Apply To apply, simply fill out the job application, and please include anything that helps demonstrate your development abilities. Examples include your GitHub, Bitbucket, or StackOverflow profile, or some sample code, articles, or presentations you've created, or even just reporting bugs on open source projects. We're looking for something to help us learn how you contribute to a team. About the company Third Iron Third Iron is a small company of 25 employees, and our success has been fueled by the passionate, curious people who work here. Most employees spend many years of their careers here, thanks to Third Iron understanding that work is just part of your life. Your job search status has been updated. Are you looking for a job? When you create a Developer Story, we’ll accelerate your matches and get you in front of employers ASAP. Create a Developer Story Full Stack Software Engineer at Third Iron Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Help Mobile Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Service Contact Us Cookie Settings Cookie Policy Stack Exchange Network Technology Culture & recreation Life & arts Science Professional Business API Data Blog Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram site design / logo © 2021 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa. rev 2021.11.30.40849 Stack Overflow works best with JavaScript enabled Your privacy By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy. Accept all cookies Customize settings