Portal:Society - Wikipedia
Portal:Society - Wikipedia Portal:Society From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Wikimedia portal Portal maintenance status: (February 2020) This portal's subpages have been checked by an editor, and are needed. Please take care when editing, especially if using automated editing software. Learn how to update the maintenance information here. Portal topics Activities Culture Geography Health History Mathematics Nature People Philosophy Religion Society Technology Random portal edit The Society Portal Canis lupus social ethology A society is a group of individuals involved in persistent social interaction, or a large social group sharing the same spatial or social territory, typically subject to the same political authority and dominant cultural expectations. Societies are characterized by patterns of relationships (social relations) between individuals who share a distinctive culture and institutions; a given society may be described as the sum total of such relationships among its constituent of members. In the social sciences, a larger society often exhibits stratification or dominance patterns in subgroups. Societies construct patterns of behavior by deeming certain actions or concepts as acceptable or unacceptable. These patterns of behavior within a given society are known as societal norms. Societies, and their norms, undergo gradual and perpetual changes. Insofar as it is collaborative, a society can enable its members to benefit in ways that would otherwise be difficult on an individual basis; both individual and social (common) benefits can thus be distinguished, or in many cases found to overlap. A society can also consist of like-minded people governed by their own norms and values within a dominant, larger society. This is sometimes referred to as a subculture, a term used extensively within criminology, and also applied to distinctive subsections of a larger society. More broadly, and especially within structuralist thought, a society may be illustrated as an economic, social, industrial or cultural infrastructure, made up of, yet distinct from, a varied collection of individuals. In this regard society can mean the objective relationships people have with the material world and with other people, rather than "other people" beyond the individual and their familiar social environment. (Full article...) Outline of society Index Refresh with new selections below (purge) edit Selected article Anarchism is generally defined as a political philosophy which holds the state to be undesirable, unnecessary, or harmful, or, alternatively, as opposing authority or hierarchical organization in the conduct of human relations. Proponents of anarchism, known as "anarchists", advocate stateless societies based on non-hierarchical voluntary associations. There are many types and traditions of anarchism, not all of which are mutually exclusive. Anarchist schools of thought can differ fundamentally, supporting anything from extreme individualism to complete collectivism. Strains of anarchism have been divided into the categories of social and individualist anarchism or similar dual classifications. Anarchism is often considered a radical left-wing ideology, and much of anarchist economics and anarchist legal philosophy reflect anti-statist interpretations of communism, collectivism, syndicalism, or participatory economics. However, anarchism has always included an individualist strain, egoist strain, and free market strain. Some individualist anarchists are also socialists or communists, while some anarcho-communists are also individualists. Anarchism as a mass social movement has regularly endured fluctuations in popularity. The central tendency of anarchism as a social movement has been represented by anarcho-communism and anarcho-syndicalism, with individualist anarchism being primarily a literary phenomenon which nevertheless did have an impact on the bigger currents and individualists have also participated in large anarchist organizations. Most anarchists oppose all forms of aggression, supporting self-defense or non-violence (anarcho-pacifism), while others have supported the use of some coercive measures, including violent revolution and propaganda of the deed, on the path to an anarchist society. More selected articles More... edit Featured picture Credit: Artist: Unknown Extermination of Evil is a set of five paintings believed to have been created in the 12th century, depicting traditional Asian deities banishing evil. The paintings are collectively listed as a National Treasure of Japan and held at the Nara National Museum. Clockwise, from top left: Sendan Kendatsuba, Shinch?, Bishamonten, Tenkeisei, and Sh?ki. More selected pictures Read more edit Did you know... ... that the Lagan Canal (pictured) was once one of the most successful canals in Ireland but closed in the 1950s after succumbing to competition from road and rail transport? ... that in response to the Norwegian butter crisis, Danish people have donated thousands of packs to butter-starved Norwegians? ... that Natchez Indians attacked French colonists in Louisiana in 1729, killing over 240 people? More did you know facts edit Anniversaries this month 1 and 2 November - Day of the Dead tradition (pictured) among Mexican people 15 November 1982 - Chinese Society Halls on Maui placed on the National Register of Historic Places 17 November 1989 - IEEE Computational Intelligence Society was formed as the IEEE Neural Networks Council 26 November 1825 - Foundation of the Kappa Alpha Society, the progenitor of the modern fraternity system in North America More anniversaries... edit Selected quote “ What is not good for the beehive, cannot be good for the bees. ” — Marcus Aurelius, Meditations More selected quotes More at Wikiquote edit Selected biography Murray Rothbard Murray Newton Rothbard (March 2, 1926 – January 7, 1995) was an American economist, historian, and political theorist. He was a prominent exponent of the Austrian School of economics and fundamentally influenced the American libertarian movement and contemporary libertarian and classical liberal thought, by theorizing a form of free-market anarchism which he termed "anarcho-capitalism". Building on the Austrian School's concept of spontaneous order, support for a free market in money production, and condemnation of central planning Rothbard advocated abolition of coercive government control of society and the economy. He considered the monopoly force of government the greatest danger to liberty and the long-term well-being of the populace, labeling the state as "the organization of robbery systematized and writ large" and the locus of the most immoral, grasping and unscrupulous individuals in any society. Rothbard concluded that all services provided by monopoly governments could be provided more efficiently by the private sector. He viewed many regulations and laws ostensibly promulgated for the "public interest" as self-interested power grabs by scheming government bureaucrats engaging in dangerously unfettered self-aggrandizement, as they were not subject to market disciplines. Rothbard held that there were inefficiencies involved with government services and asserted that market disciplines would eliminate them, if the services could be provided by competition in the private sector. Rothbard was equally condemning of state corporatism, criticizing many instances where business elites co-opted government's monopoly power so as to influence laws and regulatory policy in a manner benefiting them at the expense of their competitive rivals. He argued that taxation represents coercive theft on a grand scale, and "a compulsory monopoly of force" prohibiting the more efficient voluntary procurement of defense and judicial services from competing suppliers. He also considered central banking and fractional reserve banking under a monopoly fiat money system a form of state-sponsored, legalized financial fraud, antithetical to libertarian principles and ethics. (Full article...) More selected biographies edit Featured audio 1987 – Ronald Reagan: Tear down this wall Complete speech by Ronald Reagan at the Brandenburg Gate, June 12, 1987. More selected audio Read more edit Categories Society Society portal Society by continent Society by nationality Sociology Fictional society Anti-social behaviour Business Civil society Clubs and societies Communication Corporate groups Crime Culture Disability Economics Education Social events Family Feminism and society Society in fiction Folklore Health Social history Home Humans Inequality Social institutions Social issues Society-related lists Mating systems Matronymics Medicine in society Military Society museums Nationality Organizations Patronymics People Philosophy and society Politics Postindustrial society Private law Race and society Religion and society Rural society Science in society Sexuality and society Social change Social media Social responsibility Social sciences Social work Socioeconomics Technology in society Water and society Category Wikipedia books on society not found Society portals edit Related portals Arts Biography Education Freedom of speech Human sexuality Internet Law LGBT Philosophy Psychology Politics Religion Technology Writing edit Recognized content Featured articles 2012 phenomenon 1969 Curaçao uprising Digital media use and mental health Diocletianic Persecution W. E. B. Du Bois Female genital mutilation From the Doctor to My Son Thomas Fuck (film) Fuck: Word Taboo and Protecting Our First Amendment Liberties 1981 Irish hunger strike Solo Man Rosewood massacre Stonewall riots George Washington and slavery Featured lists List of awards and nominations received by Penn & Teller: Bullshit! Good articles Timeline of the Egyptian revolution of 2011 Acting white African Americans in Omaha, Nebraska Agriculture Algorithmic bias America's 60 Families Anarchism Anarchism in Cuba Anonymous (hacker group) Anti-nuclear movement in Australia Anna Apostolaki Archaeoastronomy Aroused (film) 2008 attacks on Christians in southern Karnataka Australopithecus africanus Australopithecus afarensis Australopithecus bahrelghazali Australopithecus deyiremeda Australopithecus garhi Australopithecus sediba Balangoda Man Before the Dawn (book) Birth control Black Lives Matter Boerehaat The Bog People Bomis Cueva de las Manos Child prostitution History of Christian thought on persecution and tolerance A Community of Witches Compulsory Miseducation Cult film Potential cultural impact of extraterrestrial contact Culture of the Song dynasty Cutting the Mustard Hilda Ellis Davidson Demographic history of Scotland Demographics of the Supreme Court of the United States Denisovan Deus Ex: Human Revolution Diaphoneme Diver communications Dmanisi hominins Double burden Dreamtime (book) Émile Durkheim EST and The Forum in popular culture Early European modern humans Ely and Littleport riots of 1816 Extremely online Family structure in the United States Feminism Feminist economics The finger First World Forensic anthropology Free Expression Policy Project Stephen Fuchs Genetically modified organism Anca Giurchescu God's Choice Erving Goffman Growing Up Absurd Herto Man Historiography of the Crusades History of agriculture Hitachi Magic Wand Winifred Hoernlé Homo rudolfensis Homo antecessor Homo ergaster Homo habilis Homo heidelbergensis Homo luzonensis Homo naledi Hooray Henry Human Human interactions with insects I Ching Globalization and women in China Incel Ivatan people Java Man Joint custody (United States) Kirkbride Plan Theodora Kroeber Language Lantian Man Ralph Larkin Lesbian Magic, Witchcraft and the Otherworld The Man-Eating Myth March for Our Lives Portland March for Science Portland March of loyalty to martyrs Karl Marx Josef Mengele A More Perfect Union: Advancing New American Rights Mork Goes Erk Mountain Meadows Massacre Myth of the clean Wehrmacht Native American mascot controversy Neanderthal New World Order (conspiracy theory) No Lifeguard on Duty Nonviolent Communication Not My Presidents Day Not in Front of the Children On the Internet, nobody knows you're a dog Otaku Ovulatory shift hypothesis Paranthropus Paranthropus aethiopicus Paranthropus boisei Paranthropus robustus Peking Man Persecution of Zoroastrians Political party Polyethnicity Pozna? protests of 1956 Protests in Canada against the Sri Lankan Civil War Proto-globalization Aparna Rao A Rape on Campus Reborn doll Herbert Hope Risley The Road to Total Freedom Romania in the Early Middle Ages Rose Street Club Royal intermarriage Edward Said Sex, Sin, and Blasphemy Sheng nu Silver Simele massacre Kateryna Skarzhynska Social identity theory Sociology Sociology of leisure Stay-at-home dad Stratford Dialectical and Radical Club Sustainability Tautavel Man Team effectiveness Tefillin Think of the children Truce term Max Weber Weiquan movement Who We Are and How We Got Here Benjamin Lee Whorf Women's March on Portland Yuanmou Man Florian Znaniecki Featured pictures 20151030 Syrians and Iraq refugees arrive at Skala Sykamias Lesvos Greece 2 Bertillon, Alphonse, fiche anthropométrique recto-verso Cicatrices de flagellation sur un esclave Play media Daisy (1964) DurbanSign1989 Frances Benjamin Johnston, Self-Portrait (as "New Woman"), 1896 Jane Addams - Bain News Service Marine da nang Play media Nanook of the North SantaCruz-CuevaManos-P2210651b Xiahe mandible edit Things you can do Here are some tasks awaiting attention: Article requests?: Check article requests in Business and economics topics • Social sciences topics • Requested pictures of society topics Assess?: Check article deletion discussions listed at Deletion sorting – Social science Cleanup?: check new articles for cleanup from Sociology-related new article feed Copyedit?: Check Sociology article alerts for interesting articles to copyedit Expand?: Expand articles in categories including: Culture, Law, Education, Politics Featured article candidates?: Review society-related articles submitted at Featured Article candidates, especially those at FAC urgents Good article nominations?: Check out articles under review for Good Article candidacy, in the Social sciences and society section Maintain?: Check the recent changes page for improvements, other changes, and vandalism to these articles Stubs?: Take on project for improvement of one of the Sociology stubs Verify?: Articles with notability concerns, listed at WikiProject Notability edit WikiProjects Related projects Community Ethnic groups Family and relationships Former countries Gender Studies LGBT studies Literature Sexology and sexuality Sociology Travel and Tourism What are WikiProjects? edit Web resources Definition of Society from the OED. Internet Modern History Sourcebook: Industrial Revolution "The Day the World Took Off" Six part video series from the University of Cambridge tracing the question "Why did the Industrial Revolution begin when and where it did." BBC History Home Page – Industrial Revolution National Museum of Science and Industry website – machines and personalities Industrial Revolution and the Standard of Living by Clark Nardinelli - the debate over whether standards of living rose or fell. edit Associated Wikimedia Society on Wikibooks Society on Wikimedia Commons Society on Wikinews Society on Wikiquote Society on Wikisource Society on Wikiversity Society on Wiktionary Manuals and books Images and media News Quotations Texts Learning resources Definitions Portals Activities Culture Geography Health History Mathematics Nature People Philosophy Religion Society Technology Random portal What are portals? List of portals Sub-pages of Portal:Society Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Society&oldid=1054073354" Categories: All portals Society portal Society Society portals Hidden categories: Portals with short description Wikipedia semi-protected portals Wikipedia move-protected portals Portals with triaged subpages from February 2020 All portals with triaged subpages Portals with no named maintainer Random portal component with more available subpages than specified max Random portal component with 31–40 available subpages Random portal component with 31–40 available image subpages Random portal component with 16–20 available subpages Past featured portals Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Portal Talk Variants expanded collapsed Views Read View source View history More expanded collapsed Search Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version Languages Alemannisch ??????? ???? Bân-lâm-gú ????????? ?????????? (???????????) Boarisch Català Cebuano Deutsch Eesti ????? Français Frysk G?k?y? Bahasa Indonesia ????? Kapampangan ??????? ??????? Kiswahili Lëtzebuergesch Magyar ?????????? ???? ??? Nederlands ??? ??????? Norsk bokmål Norsk nynorsk Occitan ?????? Polski Português ??????? ????? Soomaaliga ????? Suomi Tacl?it Taqbaylit ???????/tatarça ????????? Türkçe ???? ?????? ?? Zazaki ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 7 November 2021, at 22:23 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement