Portal:Technology - Wikipedia
Portal:Technology - Wikipedia Portal:Technology From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Wikipedia portal Portal maintenance status: (November 2018) This portal's subpages have been checked by an editor, and are needed. Please take care when editing, especially if using automated editing software. Learn how to update the maintenance information here. Portal topics Activities Culture Geography Health History Mathematics Nature People Philosophy Religion Society Technology Random portal The Technology Portal Shortcut P:TECH Technology ("science of craft", from Greek ?????, techne, "art, skill, cunning of hand"; and -?????, -logia) is the sum of any techniques, skills, methods, and processes used in the production of goods or services or in the accomplishment of objectives, such as scientific investigation. Technology can be the knowledge of techniques, processes, and the like, or it can be embedded in machines to allow for operation without detailed knowledge of their workings. Systems (e.g. machines) applying technology by taking an input, changing it according to the system's use, and then producing an outcome are referred to as technology systems or technological systems. The simplest form of technology is the development and use of basic tools. The prehistoric invention of shaped stone tools followed by the discovery of how to control fire increased sources of food. The later Neolithic Revolution extended this, and quadrupled the sustenance available from a territory. The invention of the wheel helped humans to travel in and control their environment. (Full article...) Outline of technology · Indexes Refresh with new selections below (purge) Recognized articles - load new batch Entries here consist of Good and Featured articles, which meet a core set of high editorial standards. Image 1 Route 58 is a former state highway in the city of Newark, New Jersey and nearby town of Harrison, New Jersey. The highway ran from Orange and Hecker Streets in Newark, eastbound as a four-lane freeway across the William A. Stickel Memorial Bridge (known as the Stickel Bridge) to Harrison, where it terminated at an intersection with County Route 508. The route originates as an alignment of Route 25A, a suffixed spur designated in 1939 of State Highway Route 25. The route was rechristened as Route 58 in the 1953 state highway renumbering. The highway was constructed into Interstate 280 in the 1950s, and the route persisted internally until the 1990s, when it was finally removed as a designation. A stub alignment of Route 58 remains near Hecker and Orange Streets. (Full article...) Image 2 T1000 and T1300 were two rapid transit train classes used on Oslo Metro in Oslo, Norway. The 197 cars were built by Strømmens Verksted, Norsk Elektrisk & Brown Boveri and AEG between 1960 and 1981. They were the first metro trains used in Oslo, and had remained in active use until being replaced by OS MX3000 trains in 2007. Each car is equipped with a driver's cab at one or both ends and four motors, each with 98 kilowatts (131 hp). The cars are 17 meters (56 ft) long, 3.2 meters (10 ft) wide and 3.65 meters (12.0 ft) tall. The trains use 750 V current, and are capable of 70 kilometres per hour (43 mph). Signaling is provided through automatic train protection. In 1960, two less powerful T single-car units were built, designed to be prototypes used on the Oslo Tramway. After a one-year trial, they were put into scheduled traffic to the Kolsås Line, where they remained in regular service until 1983. The production series is somewhat different in design and performance. T1000 is both used to refer to the class as a whole, or the first 162 cars, that are only equipped with third-rail shoes. They[which?] have four slight variations, which have been given the designations T1–T4. The T1300 is a series of 33 new and sixteen rebuilt T4 trains equipped with pantographs which previously allowed them operate on the western part of the network, prior to it being upgraded to third-rail metro standards. The newer units were designated T5 and T6, while the rebuilt units were designated T7 and T8. (Full article...) Image 3 Nashville International Airport (IATA: BNA, ICAO: KBNA, FAA LID: BNA) is a public/military airport in the southeastern section of Nashville, Tennessee, United States. Established in 1937, its original name was Berry Field, from which its ICAO and IATA identifiers are derived. The current terminal was built in 1987, and the airport took its current name in 1988. Nashville International Airport has four runways and covers 3,900 acres (1,600 ha). The airport is served by 22 airlines and has 585 daily arriving and departing flights with nonstop flights to 96 airports in North America and Europe. Joint Base Berry Field, formerly Berry Field Air National Guard Base is located at Nashville International Airport. The base is home to the 118th Wing and the 1/230th Air Cavalry Squadron Tennessee Army National Guard. (Full article...) Image 4 New York State Route 268 (NY 268) was a state highway in northeastern Erie County, New York, in the United States. It served as a connector between NY 5 in the town of Clarence and NY 78 at the Clarence–Amherst town line. The route passed through rural areas of the town of Clarence and did not serve any areas of significant development. The northern portion of NY 268 followed the southern bank of Tonawanda Creek. The route was assigned c.?1934 as a connector between NY 78 and Tonawanda Creek Road, then part of NY 263. In between the two routes, NY 268 followed Wolcott and Goodrich Roads. NY 268 was moved onto Tonawanda Creek and Salt Roads c.?1938 and remained on those two roads until it was replaced by a reextended NY 263 c.?1974. NY 263 was truncated back to its current northern terminus within three years time, and ownership and maintenance of all of NY 268's former routing was transferred to Erie County by April 1980. Tonawanda Creek Road became County Route 559 (CR 559) while Salt Road was redesignated as County Route 560. (Full article...) Image 5 Pennsylvania Route 263 (PA 263) is a north–south state highway located in southeast Pennsylvania. The southern terminus of the route is at PA 611 in Willow Grove, Montgomery County. The northern terminus is at the Centre Bridge–Stockton Bridge over the Delaware River in Centre Bridge, Bucks County, where the road continues into Stockton, New Jersey as Bridge Street to an intersection with Route 29. PA 263 follows the routing of Old York Road, a historic road that connected Philadelphia to New York City, and carries the name York Road from the southern terminus to Lahaska and Upper York Road north of there. From Willow Grove to Buckingham, PA 263 runs mostly through suburban areas as a four-lane road, passing through Hatboro, Warminster, and Jamison. The route forms a concurrency with U.S. Route 202 (US 202) in Buckingham and narrows to a two-lane road, splitting with that route in Lahaska. From here, the route continues through rural areas to Centre Bridge. PA 263 follows a part of the alignment of Old York Road, which was laid out in 1711. In 1911, the portion of the current route south of Lahaska became part of Legislative Route 155. When Pennsylvania designated its state highways, PA 263 was assigned to its current alignment between Willow Grove and Centre Bridge in 1928. (Full article...) Image 6 An MX3000 at Bergkrystallen MX3000 is an electric train used on Oslo Metro in Oslo, Norway. The multiple units are produced by Siemens, who started serial delivery in 2007. Seventy-eight three-car units were ordered by Sporveien, and five by Akershus County Municipality. They replaced the older T1000 and T1300 stock that was used on the Oslo Metro since 1966. By 2010, the last T1000 and T1300 trains had been retired and replaced by 83 three-car units. 32 additional sets were ordered, and the final train set was delivered in 2014, increasing the fleet to 115 units. The trains are built as units of three cars, though they are often operated as double units. Empty 12 wagons (four unit) trains are seen every night, going from the main service area at Ryen to Stortinget metro station, where they are ready to be decoupled into shorter trains for the next day. The units are 54.14 meters (177 ft 7 in) long, and weigh 98 tonnes (96 long tons; 108 short tons) empty. They have a power output of 1,680 kilowatts (2,250 hp), allowing speeds of 70 km/h (43 mph). Seated capacity is 138 seats, and total capacity is 493 passengers. The first series of 33 units were ordered in 2003, followed by an additional order for 30 in 2005, 15 in 2008, and 32 in December 2010. The trains were financed by Oslo Package 2, and each unit costs about 45 million kr. (Full article...) Image 7 M-311 is a 13.7-mile-long (22.0 km) state trunkline highway in Calhoun County in the US state of Michigan that runs from the intersection of M-60 in Burlington north to Interstate 94 (I-94) at exit 104 in Emmett Township. It was previously an unsigned state trunkline, meaning that no reassurance markers were used to identify the highway. The route mainly consists of 11 Mile Road, which was a county road prior to the 1998 rationalization process. (Full article...) More recognized articles Selected picture Image 1 WheelCredit: fir0002 A wheel is a circular component that is intended to rotate on an axial bearing. The wheel is one of the main components of the wheel and axle which is one of the six simple machines. More selected pictures Image 2 Nuclear weaponImage credit: Fastfission Schematic representation of the two methods with which to assemble an atomic bomb. An A-bomb produces its explosive energy through nuclear fission reactions alone. A mass of fissile material (enriched uranium or plutonium) is assembled into a supercritical mass—the amount of material needed to start an exponentially growing nuclear chain reaction—either by shooting one piece of sub-critical material into another (the "gun" method, shown on top here), or by compressing a sub-critical sphere of material using chemical explosives to many times its original density (the "implosion" method, at bottom). More selected pictures Image 3 Jet engineDiagram: Jeff Dahl A diagram of a typical turbojet engine. Air is compressed as it enters the engine, and is mixed with fuel that burns in the combustion section. Released through the exhaust, the resulting hot gases provide forward thrust and turn the turbines that drive the fan blades of the compressor. More selected pictures Image 4 Laptop computerCredit: Mike McGregor The OLPC XO-1 is an inexpensive subnotebook laptop computer intended to be distributed to children in developing countries. More selected pictures Image 5 Trojan Room coffee potPicture: Quentin Stafford-Fraser The Trojan Room coffee pot was the inspiration for the world's first webcam. The coffee pot was located in the corridor just outside the so-called Trojan Room within the old Computer Laboratory of the University of Cambridge. The webcam was created in 1991 to help people working in other parts of the building avoid pointless trips to the coffee pot by providing, on the user's desktop computer, a live 128×128 pixel greyscale picture of the state of the coffee pot. The webcam was shut down on 22 August 2001, following the Computer Laboratory's move to the William Gates Building. More selected pictures Image 6 TelephoneCredit: Berthold Werner A telephone, or phone, is a telecommunications device that converts sound, typically the human voice, into electronic signals suitable for transmission via cables or other transmission media over long distances through satellite. More selected pictures Image 7 Four-stroke cyclePhoto credit: Eric Pierce The four-stroke cycle of an internal combustion engine is the cycle most commonly used for automotive and industrial purposes today, including cars, trucks, and generators. The cycle was invented by Nikolaus Otto in 1876, and is also called the Otto cycle. The cycle is characterized by four strokes, or straight movements in a single direction, of the piston. More selected pictures Image 8 Commodore 64Photo: Evan Amos The Commodore 64 is an 8-bit home computer introduced in 1982 by Commodore International. Its low retail price and easy availability led to the system becoming the market leader for three years. It remains the best-selling single personal computer model of all time. More selected pictures Image 9 Thermoplastic-sheathed cablePhotograph credit: Petar Miloševi? A thermoplastic-sheathed cable consists of a toughened outer thermoplastic sheath of polyvinyl chloride, covering one or more individual annealed copper conductors. Each of the current-carrying conductors in the "core" is insulated by an individual thermoplastic sheath, coloured to indicate the purpose of the conductor concerned. The protective earth conductor may also be covered with insulation, although, in some countries, this conductor may be left as bare copper. The type of thermoplastic, the dimensions of the conductors and the colour of their individual insulation are specified by the regulatory bodies in the various countries concerned. More selected pictures Image 10 Semi-submersiblePhoto: Agência Brasil The semi-submersible oil platform P-51, operated by Brazilian energy company Petrobras, being positioned by tugboats. Semisubs sit on pontoons located under the ocean surface, with the operating deck atop columns, above the sea level. In this manner, they are relatively protected from wave action. More selected pictures Image 11 Aerospike enginePhoto credit: Marshall Space Flight Center A test firing of twin linear XRS-2200 aerospike engines, originally built for the Lockheed Martin X-33, a next-generation, commercially operated reusable launch vehicle. The aerospike engine is a type of rocket engine that maintains its efficiency across a wide range of altitudes through the use of an aerospike nozzle. A vehicle with an aerospike engine uses 25-30% less fuel at low altitudes, where most missions have the greatest need for thrust. More selected pictures Image 12 Mark IV tankPhotograph: Peter Trimming The Mark IV tank was introduced by the British in May 1917 to fight in World War I. The "female" version, as pictured here, was armed with five machine guns. Production of the Mark IV ceased at the end of the War in 1918. A small number served briefly with other combatants afterwards. This Mark IV tank, on display in Ashford, Kent, was presented to the town after the end of World War I. The engine was removed to install an electricity substation inside it, though this substation was subsequently removed; the tank's interior is now empty. More selected pictures Image 13 EscalatorCredit: Stig Nygaard An escalator is a moving staircase for carrying people between floors of a building. The device consists of a motor-driven chain of individual, linked steps that move up or down on tracks, allowing the step treads to remain horizontal. More selected pictures Image 14 SOCATA TBMPhotograph credit: Michael Mainiero The SOCATA TBM (now Daher TBM) is a family of high-performance single-engine turboprop business and utility light aircraft manufactured by Daher. This SOCATA TBM 900 was photographed in flight during the 2015 EAA AirVenture Oshkosh airshow in the U.S. state of Wisconsin. The aircraft features a Pratt & Whitney Canada PT6A-64 engine, and a five-blade carbon-fiber propeller, which increases performance and decreases cabin noise. In a passenger configuration, the pressurized cabin is typically fitted with highly finished interiors, featuring luxury materials such as leather and wood veneers. More selected pictures Image 15 NesjavellirPhoto credit: Gretar Ívarsson The Nesjavellir geothermal power plant, located near Þingvellir, Iceland is the largest of five such plants in the country. Because of the high concentration of volcanoes in Iceland, geothermal energy is so inexpensive that in the wintertime, some pavements in Reykjavík and Akureyri are heated. More selected pictures Image 16 Wiesen ViaductPhotograph: David Gubler The Wiesen Viaduct is a single-track railway viaduct (concrete blocks with dimension stone coverage) which spans the Landwasser southwest of the hamlet of Wiesen, Switzerland. Designed by Henning Friedrich, then the chief engineer of the Rhaetian Railway, it was built between 1906 and 1909 by the contractor G. Marasi (Westermann & Cie, Zürich) under the supervision of P. Salaz and Hans Studer (RhB). The Rhaetian Railway still owns and uses the viaduct today for regular service with 29 passenger trains per day. An important element of the Davos–Filisur railway, the viaduct is 88.9 metres (292 ft) high, 210 metres (690 ft) long, and has a main span of 55 metres (180 ft). In 1926, the viaduct was the inspiration for Ernst Ludwig Kirchner's painting Brücke bei Wiesen. More selected pictures Image 17 Enriched uraniumPhoto: United States Department of Energy A billet of enriched uranium, which is uranium where the percent composition of uranium-235 (235U) has been increased through the process of isotope separation. Enriched uranium is a critical component for both civil nuclear power generation and military nuclear weapons. More selected pictures Image 18 Let L-410 TurboletPhoto: ?ukasz Golowanow The Let L-410 Turbolet is a twin-engined short-range transport aircraft, manufactured by the Czech aircraft manufacturer LET, mostly used for passenger transport. The L-410 first flew in 1969, and with more than 1100 produced, is the most popular 19-seat plane in history. More selected pictures Image 19 Overhead power lineCredit: Simon Koopmann An overhead power line is a structure used in electric power transmission and distribution to transmit electrical energy along large distances. It consists of one or more conductors suspended by towers or utility poles. More selected pictures Image 20 Rail transportPhotograph: David Gubler Rail transport is a means of conveyance of passengers and goods by way of wheeled vehicles running on rail tracks. The oldest, man-hauled railways date to the 6th century B.C.; the method grew more popular after the introduction of steam locomotives in the 19th century. Here we can see four BNSF GE C44-9W diesel locomotives hauling a mixed freight train along the Columbia River in the US. More selected pictures Did you know - show different entries ... that Ma?gorzata Kalinowska-Iszkowska was awarded a Polish Gold Cross of Merit for her work in information technology? ... that Alejandro Finocchiaro, Argentina's current Minister of Education, Culture, Science and Technology, produced the 2008 documentary Mujeres de la Shoá ('Women of the Holocaust')? ... that Turkey's Anadolu Shipyard signed a contract with India's Hindustan Shipyard to transfer technology for the building of five fleet support ships for the Indian Navy? ... that Andrew Niikondo, acting vice-chancellor of the Namibia University of Science and Technology, completed his secondary school education only at age 30? ... that the Atari 410 Program Recorder was used to store programs on the Atari 8-bit family, but was also used for computer aided instruction? ... that modified mRNA (mRNA translation depicted) is a key technology in the Moderna and BioNTech/Pfizer vaccines against COVID-19? Top 10 WikiProject Technology Popular articles of the month Image 1 Logo since 2017 YouTube is an American online video sharing and social media platform owned by Google. It was launched on February 14, 2005 by Steve Chen, Chad Hurley, and Jawed Karim. It is the second most visited website, with more than one billion monthly users who collectively watch more than one billion hours of videos each day. , videos were being uploaded at a rate of more than 500 hours of content per minute. (Full article...) Image 2 Musk at the Royal Society admissions day in London, 2018 Elon Reeve Musk FRS (/?i?l?n/; born June 28, 1971) is an entrepreneur and business magnate. He is the founder, CEO and Chief Engineer at SpaceX; early-stage investor, CEO and Product Architect of Tesla, Inc.; founder of The Boring Company; and co-founder of Neuralink and OpenAI. With an estimated net worth of nearly US$300 billion as of November 2021, Musk is the richest person in the world. (Full article...) Image 3 Logo Google LLC is an American multinational technology company that specializes in Internet-related services and products, which include online advertising technologies, a search engine, cloud computing, software, and hardware. It is considered one of the Big Five companies in the American information technology industry, along with Amazon, Apple, Meta (Facebook) and Microsoft. (Full article...) Image 4 Facebook is an American online social media and social networking service owned by Meta Platforms. Founded in 2004 by Mark Zuckerberg with fellow Harvard College students and roommates Eduardo Saverin, Andrew McCollum, Dustin Moskovitz, and Chris Hughes, its name comes from the face book directories often given to American university students. Membership was initially limited to Harvard students, gradually expanding to other North American universities and, since 2006, anyone over 13 years old. As of 2020, Facebook claimed 2.8 billion monthly active users, and ranked seventh in global internet usage. It was the most downloaded mobile app of the 2010s. (Full article...) Image 5 Logo since 2000 Amazon.com, Inc. (/?æm?z?n/ AM-?-zon) is an American multinational technology company which focuses on e-commerce, cloud computing, digital streaming, and artificial intelligence. It is one of the Big Five companies in the U.S. information technology industry, along with Google (Alphabet), Apple, Meta (Facebook), and Microsoft. The company has been referred to as "one of the most influential economic and cultural forces in the world", as well as the world's most valuable brand. (Full article...) Image 6 WhatsApp Messenger, or simply WhatsApp, is an American freeware, cross-platform centralized instant messaging (IM) and voice-over-IP (VoIP) service owned by Meta Platforms. It allows users to send text messages and voice messages, make voice and video calls, and share images, documents, user locations, and other content. WhatsApp's client application runs on mobile devices but is also accessible from desktop computers, as long as the user's mobile device remains connected to the Internet while they use the desktop app. The service requires a cellular mobile telephone number to sign up. In January 2018, WhatsApp released a standalone business app targeted at small business owners, called WhatsApp Business, to allow companies to communicate with customers who use the standard WhatsApp client. (Full article...) Image 7 YouTube Premium (formerly YouTube Red) is a subscription service offered by the video platform YouTube. The service provides ad-free access to content across the service, as well as access to premium YouTube Originals programming produced in collaboration with the site's creators, downloading videos and background playback of videos on mobile devices, and access to the YouTube Music music streaming service. (Full article...) Image 8 Commercial logo as used by Apple, since 2017 iOS (formerly iPhone OS) is a mobile operating system created and developed by Apple Inc. exclusively for its hardware. It is the operating system that powers many of the company's mobile devices, including the iPhone and iPod Touch; the term also included the versions running on iPads until the name iPadOS was introduced with version 13 in 2019. It is the world's second-most widely installed mobile operating system, after Android. It is the basis for three other operating systems made by Apple: iPadOS, tvOS, and watchOS. It is proprietary software, although some parts of it are open source under the Apple Public Source License and other licenses. (Full article...) Image 9 macOS (/?mæko???s/; previously Mac OS X and later OS X) is a proprietary graphical operating system developed and marketed by Apple Inc. since 2001. It is the primary operating system for Apple's Mac computers. Within the market of desktop and laptop computers it is the second most widely used desktop OS, after Windows NT and ahead of Chrome OS. (Full article...) Image 10 A tweet sent from the International Space Station account, including a photograph, a link and two hashtags Twitter (initially called Twttr) is an American microblogging and social networking service on which users post and interact with messages known as "tweets". Registered users can post, like, and retweet tweets, but unregistered users can only read those that are publicly available. Users interact with Twitter through browser or mobile frontend software, or programmatically via its APIs. Prior to April 2020, services were accessible via SMS. The service is provided by Twitter, Inc., a corporation based in San Francisco, California, and has more than 25 offices around the world. Tweets were originally restricted to 140 characters, but the limit was doubled to 280 for non-CJK languages in November 2017. Audio and video tweets remain limited to 140 seconds for most accounts. (Full article...) WikiProjects Parent project Technology Related projects Architecture Computing Computer Science Engineering Electronics Energy development Energy History of Science Metalworking Skyscrapers Telecommunications Video games Woodworking What are WikiProjects? Categories Select [?] to view subcategories Technology Technology by type Outlines of technology and applied science Technology-related lists Works about technology Technology in society People associated with technology People in technology Artificial objects Technological change Technical communication Technological comparisons Computing Technology development Engineering Technology evangelism High-technology business districts History of technology Hypothetical technology Manufacturing Science and technology ministries Mobile technology Obsolete technologies Technology organizations Philosophy of technology Real-time technology Regulation of technologies Science and technology Software Technology strategy Technology systems Technical specifications Technology education Technology hazards Technology stubs Main topics v t e Technology and related concepts Major technologies Necessities Agriculture Domestication Grafting Working animal Clothing Sewing machine Cooking Beer Bread Cheese Milling Wine Food storage Pottery Sanitation Plumbing Toilet Tool Blade Hammer Plough Wedge Weapon Gun Social Accounting Calculation Abacus Calendar Cryptography Lock and key Money Banknote Coin Musical instrument Phonograph Toy Game Video game Writing Book Map Printing press Typewriter Construction Aqueduct Canal Irrigation Arch Bridge Building Fortification Foundation Scaffolding Tower Dam Caisson Road Tunnel Transport Aircraft Aerostat Airplane Compass Elevator Horseback riding Stirrup Jet engine Rocket Motor vehicle Railroad Train Scuba set Spacecraft Satellite Space station Space suit Watercraft Sailing Ship Submarine Manufacturing 3D printing Carpentry Casting Injection moulding Lost-wax casting Mass production Assembly line Interchangeable parts Machine tool Welding Simple machine Axle Bearing Ball bearing Belt Chain Lever Catapult Crane Shadoof Linkage Cam Clutch Four-bar linkage Piston Rack and pinion Pendulum Screw Archimedes' screw Propeller Spring Valve Wheel Block and tackle Flywheel Gear Potter's wheel Pulley Wing Machinery Agricultural machinery Appliance Dishwasher Washing machine Engine Electric motor Internal combustion Turbine Waterwheel Windmill Heavy equipment Hydraulics Cylinder Manifold Pump Mechanism Clock Differential Epicyclic gearing Gimbal Gyroscope Whippletree MEMS Pneumatics Compressor Jackhammer Rivet gun Vacuum pump Robotics Arm Leg Energy Fire Charcoal Oven Energy storage Battery Geothermal power Heat exchanger Heat pump Nuclear power Nuclear weapon Oil drilling Fracking Refrigeration Air conditioning Refrigerator Solar power Photovoltaics Material Cement Concrete Ceramic Brick Chipped stone Glass Masonry Metallurgy Aluminum Bronze Ironworking Steel Nanomaterial Paper Plastic Rammed earth Recycling Rubber Vulcanization Textile Loom Spinning wheel Biotechnology Birth control Blood transfusion Dentistry Genetic engineering CRISPR gene editing Genetic testing PCR Hospital Medical imaging Medication Anesthesia Antibiotic Prosthesis Surgery Vaccine Chemical Detergent Soap Dye Explosive Dynamite Fireworks Gunpowder TNT Fertilizer Haber process Laboratory glassware Pesticide Pigment Separation Chromatography Distillation Filtration Spectrometer Synthesis Electromagnetism Electromagnet Laser Optical disc Lens Eyeglasses Magnetic storage Microwave oven Mirror Optical fiber Optical instrument Microscope Telescope Photography Camera Motion picture Radar Telecommunications Mobile phone Radio Telegraph Telephone Television Electricity Circuit AC Circuit breaker DC Electrical grid Fuse Generator Switch Transformer Electric light Fluorescent Incandescent LED Neon Electronics Capacitor Circuit board Resistor Inductor Vacuum tube Lightning rod Multimeter Oscilloscope Semiconductor Diode Integrated circuit Transistor Superconductor Computer Artificial intelligence Hardware CPU GPU Modem Motherboard Mouse RAM Router Storage Touchscreen Networking Client–server model Email Internet Peer-to-peer Social media World Wide Web Programming language Software Compiler Database GUI Graphics software Operating system Spreadsheet Web browser Word processor Perspectives Criticism Appropriate technology Low technology Luddite Neo-Luddism Precautionary principle Ecotechnology Environmental technology Clean technology Sustainable design Sustainable engineering Policy & politics Government by algorithm Intellectual property Patent Trade secret Persuasive technology Science policy Strategy of Technology Technology assessment Technorealism Progressivism Futures studies Technology forecasting Technological utopianism Technocracy movement Technological singularity Transhumanism Studies Diffusion of innovations Technology transfer History Timeline of historic inventions Philosophy Social construction of technology Technological determinism Technology acceptance model Related concepts Applied science Agronomy Architecture Construction Engineering Forensics Forestry Logistics Medicine Mining Navigation Surveying Innovation Design High tech Invention Mature technology Research and development Technological convergence Technology lifecycle Category Commons Outline Portal WikiProject News See also: 2021 in science and technology November 29, 2021 – Jack Dorsey resigns as the CEO of Twitter and is succeeded by Chief technology officer Parag Agrawal. (CNBC) October 28, 2021 – Australia–France relations French President Emmanuel Macron tells Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison that Morrison had broken the trust between the two countries and that it was up to Canberra to repair those ties with "tangible actions". France had criticized its allies after Australia opted for nuclear-powered submarines to be built with U.S. and British technology instead of a $A90 billion French diesel-electric submarine program. Macron also urged Australia to stop mining coal. (The Canberra Times) October 25, 2021 – COVID-19 pandemic The Philippines Health Technology Assessment Council approves the administration of a third COVID-19 vaccine as a booster dose to health workers in the fourth quarter of 2021, with other priority groups becoming eligible for a booster dose in 2022. (Rappler) October 18, 2021 – Egor Babaev and collaborators with the KTH Royal Institute of Technology publish an experiment showing evidence of a new state of matter called electron quadruplets. (Phys.org) September 27, 2021 – COVID-19 pandemic The Health Ministry panel committee approve the usage of the single-dose monoclonal antibody-based treatment sotrovimab developed by GlaxoSmithKline and Vir Biotechnology to treat mild and moderately-ill COVID-19 patients. (The Japan Times) September 19, 2021 – 2021 Australian Parliament House sexual misconduct allegations Australian Industry, Science and Technology Minister Christian Porter resigns amid criticism for receiving anonymous donations in his defamation case against the Australian Broadcasting Corporation, who reported on historical rape allegations against him. (The Guardian) Related portals Agriculture Astronomy Aviation Computer programming Electronics Energy Engineering Film Geography Mathematics Medicine Nuclear technology Radio Renewable energy Science Spaceflight Telecom Telephones Television Trains Transport Video games War Things you can do Check the recent changes page for improvements, other changes, and vandalism to these articles Article requests: Computer science, computing, and Internet topics · Engineering topics · Technology and tools topics Deletion discussions: Listed at Wikipedia:WikiProject Deletion sorting/Technology Expand: check Electronics · Engineer · Optics · Robotics · Telecommunications · Wireless Notability: Articles with notability concerns, listed at WikiProject Notability Requested pictures: Technology topics, requested pictures Associated Wikimedia The following Wikimedia Foundation sister projects provide more on this subject: Wikibooks Books Commons Media Wikinews News Wikiquote Quotations Wikisource Texts Wikiversity Learning resources Wikivoyage Travel guides Wiktionary Definitions Wikidata Database Portals Activities Culture Geography Health History Mathematics Nature People Philosophy Religion Society Technology Random portal What are portals? List of portals Sub-pages of Portal:Technology Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Technology&oldid=1054077716" Categories: All portals Technology portals Technology Technology portal Science portals Hidden categories: Pages using Template:Post-nominals with missing parameters Portals with short description Wikipedia semi-protected portals Portals with triaged subpages from November 2018 All portals with triaged subpages Portals with no named maintainer Automated article-slideshow portals with over 1000 articles in article list Automated article-slideshow portals with 501–1000 articles in article list Past featured portals Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Portal Talk Variants expanded collapsed Views Read View source View history More expanded collapsed Search Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikiversity Languages Alemannisch ???? ??????? ???? ?????? Bân-lâm-gú ????????? ?????????? (???????????) ????????? Boarisch Bosanski Català Cebuano ??????? Deutsch Eesti ???????? Español Esperanto ????? Français Frysk G?k?y? ??? ?????? Bahasa Indonesia IsiZulu ????? ??????? ??????? Kurdî ???????? Latina Lëtzebuergesch Lietuvi? Magyar ?????????? Bahasa Melayu ?????? ?????????? ?????? ??? ??????? Occitan ????? O?zbekcha/??????? ???? Polski Português Român? ??????? Seeltersk Shqip ????? ????? Suomi Svenska ????? Tacl?it ???????/tatarça ????????? Türkçe ?? ???? ?????????? Ti?ng Vi?t Wolof ?? Zazaki ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 7 November 2021, at 22:57 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement