Prime Minister of Romania - Wikipedia
Prime Minister of Romania - Wikipedia Prime Minister of Romania From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Head of the Government of Romania Prime Minister of Romania Prim-ministrul Guvernului României Standard of the Prime Minister of Romania Incumbent Nicolae Ciuc? since 25 November 2021 Style His/Her Excellency Member of Government of Romania Supreme Council of National Defence Residence Victoria Palace, Bucharest Cabinet and Government headquarters Appointer President of Romania Term length 4 years No term limit Inaugural holder Barbu Catargiu as President of The Council of Ministers Formation January 22, 1862; 159 years ago (1862-01-22) Salary 15,108 lei (2015)[1] Website gov.ro/ro/guvernul/cabinetul-de-ministri/prim-ministru1575537361 Politics of Romania Constitution Referendums 1991 (adoption) 2003 (amendments) 2015 (amendments) Constitutional Court Government President (list) Klaus Iohannis Prime Minister (list) Florin Cî?u Cabinet (current, list) Parliament Senate President: Anca Dragu Standing Bureau Chamber of Deputies President: Ludovic Orban Standing Bureau Judiciary High Court of Cassation and Justice Constitutional Court Ombudsman Judicial reform Political parties Parliamentary National Liberal Party (PNL) Social Democratic Party (PSD) Save Romania Union (USR) Freedom, Unity and Solidarity Party (PLUS) Alliance for the Union of Romanians (AUR) Democratic Alliance of Hungarians in Romania (UDMR) Humanist Power Party (PPU) Romanian Nationhood Party (PNR) Other ethnic-minority parties Non-parliamentary People's Movement Party (PMP) PRO Romania (PRO) Alliance of Liberals and Democrats (ALDE) United Romania Party (PRU) Greater Romania Party (PRM) Christian Democratic National Peasants' Party (PN?-CD) Ecologist Party of Romania (PER) Green Party (PV) Elections Permanent Electoral Authority Recent elections Presidential: 2024 2019 2014 Legislative: next 2020 2016 Local: 2020 2016 2012 European: 2019 2014 2009 Administrative divisions Macroregions Development regions Counties Metropolitan areas Municipalities Sectors Cities Communes Foreign relations China European Union NATO Moldova unification movement Russia Embassies Politicians Heads of state National Salvation Front Council members Presidents by time in office Prime Ministers Ministers of Finance Romania portal Other countries v t e The prime minister of the Government of Romania (Romanian: Prim-ministrul Guvernului României) is the head of the Government of Romania. Initially, the office was styled President of the Council of Ministers (Romanian: Pre?edintele Consiliului de Mini?tri), when the term "Government" included more than the Cabinet, and the Cabinet was called The Council of Ministers (Consiliul de Mini?tri). The title was officially changed to Prime Minister by the 1965 Constitution of Romania during the communist regime.[2] The current prime minister is Nicolae Ciuc?. He assumed office after nearly three months of political crisis. Contents 1 Nomination 2 Functions 2.1 Relationship with Parliament 3 History 4 Living former prime ministers 5 Residence 6 See also 7 References 7.1 Citations 7.2 Sources 8 External links Nomination[edit] One of the roles of the president of the Republic is to designate a candidate for the office of prime minister. The president must consult with the party that has the majority in the Parliament or, if no such majority exists, with the parties represented in Parliament.[3] Once designated, the candidate assembles a proposal for the governing program and the cabinet. The proposal must be approved by the Parliament within ten days, through a vote of confidence process. Both the program and the cabinet membership are debated by the Parliament in a joint session of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate. The proposal is accepted only if a majority of all deputies and senators approves.[3] Once the vote of confidence is obtained, the candidate becomes the prime minister and all cabinet members become ministers. The prime minister, the ministers, and other members of the Government take an oath before the president, as stipulated under Article 82 of the Constitution. The Government as a whole and each of its members exercise their mandate from the date of the oath.[4] Functions[edit] The prime minister directs Government actions and co-ordinates the activities of its members. He or she submits to the Chamber of Deputies or the Senate reports and statements on Government policy, to be debated.[5] As head of the government, the prime minister is charged with directing the internal policy of the country and leads the public administration. In this regard, the government cooperates with other interested social actors. As with any other office of public authority, the office of prime minister is incompatible with any other office, except that of deputy or senator and is also incompatible with a professional position in a commercial organization. The term of a prime minister ends with the individual's resignation, dismissal following a motion of no confidence, loss of electoral rights (following a conviction), incompatibility with the office, death or expiration of the term of the legislature. The prime minister, together with the minister tasked with the particular field of government, can sign resolutions and ordinances to take effect as executive orders the moment they are published in the Monitorul Oficial, the official gazette of the Romanian state. Such ordinances must be sent to the appropriate chamber of Parliament where they are discussed in an urgent manner and they are then sent to the official gazette. In case the noticed chamber does not discuss or approve said ordinance after 30 days of its arrival, the ordinance is officially adopted and published in the Monitor. An emergency ordinance cannot modify a constitutional law, concern the functioning of the fundamental institutions, rights or liberties. Unlike in the president-parliamentary semi-presidential systems, such as Russia, the Romanian prime minister is not a subordinate of the president who cannot dismiss the prime minister.[5] The president can attend the government meetings debating upon matters of national interest with regard to foreign policy, country's defense, maintenance of public order, and, at the invitation of the prime minister, in other instances as well.[6] The president will always chair the government meetings he attends.[6] In addition to his constitutional roles, the prime minister is, generally, the leader of the major party in the majority coalition that supports the government, although this is not always the case. Relationship with Parliament[edit] The Government and the other bodies of administration must submit all information, reports or documents requested by the Chamber of Deputies, Senate or parliamentary committees as part of the parliamentary control of government. The members of government are allowed to attend the works of Parliament and they must do so at the request of the presidents of the chambers. The prime minister and the members of his Cabinet must answer all questions or interpellations brought forward by deputies or senators as under the terms laid down in the statutes of Parliament. After such interpellations, the Chamber or the Senate can adopt a simple motion to express their position towards an issue of internal or external politics. Parliament can dismiss an outgoing prime minister and his cabinet by adopting a motion of no confidence against the government. In order for a motion to be initiated, it must be signed by at least a quarter of deputies and senators and for it to pass, a majority of deputies and senators must vote in favour of it. After a motion of no confidence is adopted, the prime minister and his Cabinet are officially dismissed and the President must designate an individual to form a new government.[7] Since 1989, four prime ministers have been dismissed following the adoption of a motion of no confidence: Emil Boc (2009),[8] Mihai R?zvan Ungureanu (2012),[9] Sorin Grindeanu (2017),[10] and Viorica D?ncil? (2019).[11] History[edit] Originally styled President of the Council of Ministers, the office was first created in 1862 during the reign of Prince Alexandru Ioan Cuza. Cuza, unlike other monarchs of his time, was not a hereditary ruler. In 1859 he was elected Prince of Wallachia and Prince of Moldavia in two separate elections, thus de facto uniting the two principalities. By 1862, he had completely fused the two administrations into a single government with its capital at Bucharest, the new country bearing the name Romania, but the union was in danger of being dissolved after the end of his rule. A liberal, in favour of the two great reform projects envisioned by the liberals of the time (the electoral and agrarian reforms), Cuza did not publicly espouse his political preferences or position himself as the leader of a faction, preferring to keep the office of the Prince politically neutral. In order to give the country a political government, Cuza created the office of Prime Minister and brought into power the leader of the Conservative faction, Barbu Catargiu.[12] During the first years after its creation the office held considerable authority, being able to challenge the will of the Prince and together with a Legislative Assembly composed mainly of conservatives and reactionaries, Catargiu's conservative government was able to delay the adoption of several reforms. Frustrated by the government's opposition to reforms, and unable to work with an Assembly dominated by reactionary forces due to the censitary nature of the electoral system, Cuza launched a coup d'etat, followed by a constitutional referendum that replaced the Convention of Paris, an act that served as the constitution of the country, with his own version named the Statute expanding the Paris Convention (Romanian: Statutul dezvolt?tor al Conven?iei de la Paris). The new constitution created the Senate for serving Cuza's legislative purposes and vested the office of the Prince with full executive authority, while the Prime Minister remained his subordinate. Even though Cuza now had plenary powers, the office the Prime Minister remained influent, and Mihail Kog?lniceanu, the 3rd Prime Minister, a liberal and former ally of Cuza often clashed with him.[13] After Cuza's removal by coup d'etat in 1866 by a coalition formed by both members of the liberal and conservative factions, the political forces of the time settled on two objectives: bringing a foreign prince from a European noble family on the country's throne and drafting a liberal constitution. The 1866 Constitution confirmed that the Prime Minister served at the pleasure of the Prince, the latter being able to appoint and dismiss the former at any time and for any reason. Nevertheless, the Prime Minister still held considerable influence.[14] After World War I led to the creation of Greater Romania another constitution was drafted in 1923 to reflect the changes the Romanian state had undergone since the Treaty of Versailles and the Treaty of Trianon. The new constitution limited the powers of the King, vesting the executive power entirely in the Prime Minister and his Cabinet who now governed in the King's name after the latter appointed him.[15] The new constitution also made the first steps towards a parliamentary control of the government, stipulating that either of the chambers may put ministers under accusation to stand trial.[16] Living former prime ministers[edit] There are 16 living former Romanian prime ministers, all of them serving in post-1989 Romania: Living former prime ministers of Romania Petre Roman (age 75) (1989–1991) (age at ascension 43) Theodor Stolojan (age 78) (1991–1992) (age at ascension 47) Nicolae V?c?roiu (age 77) (1992–1996) (age at ascension 48) Victor Ciorbea (age 67) (1996–1998) (age at ascension 42) Mugur Is?rescu (age 72) (1999–2000) (age at ascension 50) Adrian N?stase (age 71) (2000–2004) (age at ascension 50) C?lin Popescu-T?riceanu (age 69) (2004–2008) (age at ascension 52) Emil Boc (age 55) (2008–2012) (age at ascension 42) Mihai R?zvan Ungureanu (age 53) (2012) (age at ascension 43) Victor Ponta (age 49) (2012–2015) (age at ascension 39) Dacian Ciolo? (age 52) (2015–2017) (age at ascension 46) Sorin Grindeanu (age 47) (2017) (age at ascension 43) Mihai Tudose (age 54) (2017–2018) (age at ascension 50) Viorica D?ncil? (age 57) (2018–2019) (age at ascension 54) Ludovic Orban (age 58) (2019–2020) (age at ascension 56) Florin Cî?u (age 49) (2020-2021) (age at ascension 48) The most recent death of a former Prime Minister of Romania is that of Radu Vasile (1998–1999) on 3 July 2013 (age 70, age at ascension 55). Residence[edit] See also: Victoria Palace The current residence of the Prime Minister is the Victoria Palace. Initially designed to be headquarters of the Foreign Ministry, Victoria Palace was the headquarters of Foreign Ministry and Council of Ministers during the Communist period and became, in 1990, headquarters of the first government of post-communist Romania. The palace was declared a historical monument in 2004. See also[edit] List of Prime Ministers of Romania List of Presidents of Romania Further information: Lifespan timeline of prime ministers of Romania References[edit] Citations[edit] ^ "Guvernul majoreaz?, din august, prin ordonan??, salariile demnitarilor. Cât vor câ?tiga Iohannis ?i Ponta". gandul.info. 8 July 2015. Retrieved 30 March 2018. ^ "CONSTITU?IA Republicii Socialiste România din 1965 ("1965 Constitution of the Socialist Republic of Romania")" (in Romanian). Chamber of Deputies (Romania). Article 80. Retrieved 10 December 2018. ^ a b "Constitution of Romania". Article 103. Retrieved 20 November 2014. ^ "Constitution of Romania". Article 82. Retrieved 20 November 2014. ^ a b "Constitution of Romania". Chapter III. Retrieved 20 November 2014. ^ a b "Constitution of Romania". Art. 87. Retrieved 10 December 2018. ^ "Constitution of Romania". Chapter IV. Retrieved 23 June 2017. ^ "Guvernul Boc 2 a c?zut, mo?iune de cenzur? adoptat? cu 254 coturi pentru". ZF (in Romanian). 2009. ^ "Guvernul MRU demis prin mo?iune de cenzur? de USL". ZF (in Romanian). 2012. ^ "Mo?iunea de cenzur? a trecut". Digi24 (in Romanian). 2017. ^ "Romania government collapses after no-confidence vote". DW. 10 October 2019. Retrieved 10 October 2019. ^ Isar (2005). Nicolae. Funda?ia România de mâine. pp. 48–50. ISBN 973-725-240-3. ^ Isar (2005). Nicolae. Funda?ia România de mâine. pp. 57–65. ISBN 973-725-240-3. ^ Isar (2005). Nicolae. Funda?ia România de mâine. p. 83. ISBN 973-725-240-3. ^ Scurtu, Ioan. Istoria Românilor Vol. VIII. Editura Enciclopedic?. pp. 188–189. ISBN 973-45-0381-2. ^ "1923 Constitution". 2 January 2000. Sources[edit] Nicolae C. Nicolescu, ?efii de stat ?i de guvern ai României (1859–2003), Editura Meronia, Bucharest, 2003 Stelian Neagoe, Istoria guvernelor României de la începuturi – 1859 pân? în zilele noastre – 1995, Editura Machiavelli, Bucharest, 1995 Isar, Nicolae (2005). Istoria modern? a românilor (1848–1878) (II ed.). Bucharest: Funda?ia României de mâine. ISBN 973-725-240-3. External links[edit] (in Romanian) Guvernele României Government site v t e Romania articles Topics History Timeline Prehistoric Romania Dacia Roman Dacia Early Middle Ages Middle Ages Early Modern Era National awakening United Principalities Kingdom World War I Greater Romania World War II Communist Romania Revolution Since 1989 COVID-19 pandemic Geography Cities Climate Counties Earthquakes Fauna Flora Historical regions Islands Lakes Mountains Protected areas Rivers Territorial evolution Topography Politics Administrative divisions Constitution Elections Foreign relations Government Human rights LGBT Judiciary Law enforcement Military Parliament Political parties Unification with Moldova Economy Agriculture Energy Exports Foreign investment Foreign trade Forestry Great Depression Industry automotive construction mining petrochemical Leu (currency) National Bank Property bubble Science and technology Services Stock Exchange Telecommunications Tourism Transport Society Crime Demographics Education Healthcare Immigration Languages Minorities Prostitution Public holidays Racism Religion Romanians Gypsies Social structure Urban planning Welfare Culture Academy Architecture Art Cinema Cuisine Folklore Humour Literature Media Music Philosophy Sport World Heritage Sites Outline Category Portal Commons v t e Prime ministers of Romania List of heads of government of Romania United Principalities B. Catargiu Arsache N. Cre?ulescu Kog?lniceanu Bosianu N. Cre?ulescu I. Ghica L. Catargiu I. Ghica C. Cre?ulescu ?. Golescu N. Golescu D. Ghica A. Golescu Epureanu I. Ghica L. Catargiu Florescu Epureanu Ion C. Br?tianu Kingdom of Romania Ion C. Br?tianu D. Br?tianu Ion C. Br?tianu Rosetti L. Catargiu Manu Florescu L. Catargiu Sturdza Aurelian Sturdza Cantacuzino Carp Sturdza Cantacuzino Sturdza Ion I. C. Br?tianu Carp Maiorescu Ion I. C. Br?tianu Averescu Marghiloman Coand? Ion I. C. Br?tianu V?itoianu Vaida-Voevod Averescu Ionescu Ion I. C. Br?tianu Averescu ?tirbey Ion I. C. Br?tianu V. Br?tianu Maniu Mironescu Maniu Mironescu Iorga Vaida-Voevod Maniu Vaida-Voevod Duca Angelescu T?t?rescu Goga Cristea C?linescu Arge?anu Argetoianu T?t?rescu Gigurtu Antonescu S?n?tescu R?descu Groza R.P.R.—R.S.R. Groza Gheorghiu-Dej Stoica Maurer M?nescu Verde? D?sc?lescu Romania since 1989 Roman Stolojan V?c?roiu Ciorbea Dejeu Vasile Athanasiu Is?rescu N?stase Bejinariu Popescu-T?riceanu Boc Predoiu Ungureanu Ponta Oprea Ponta Oprea Ponta Cîmpeanu Ciolo? Grindeanu Tudose Fifor D?ncil? Orban Ciuc? Cî?u Ciuc? Italics indicate interim officeholders. v t e Supreme Council of National Defence (CSAT) President Klaus Iohannis (P) Vice President Ludovic Orban (PM) Members Nicolae Ciuc? (MApN) Marcel Vela (MAI) Bogdan Aurescu (MAE) C?t?lin Predoiu (MJ) Virgil-Daniel Popescu (MECT) Florin Cî?u (MFP) Eduard Hellvig (SRI) Gabriel Vlase (SIE) Daniel Petrescu (SMG) Ion Opri?or (PC) Mihai ?omordolea (Secretary) v t e Heads of state and government of Europe Heads of state UN members and observers Albania Andorra Armenia1 Austria Azerbaijan1 Belarus Belgium Bosnia and Herzegovina Bulgaria Croatia Cyprus1 Czech Republic Denmark Estonia Finland France Georgia1 Germany Greece Holy See Vatican City Hungary Iceland Ireland Italy Kazakhstan1 Latvia Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Malta Moldova Monaco Montenegro Netherlands North Macedonia Norway Poland Portugal Romania Russian Federation1 San Marino Serbia Slovakia Slovenia Sovereign Military Order of Malta Spain Sweden Switzerland Turkey1 Ukraine United Kingdom Partially recognised2 Abkhazia1 Kosovo Northern Cyprus1 South Ossetia1 Unrecognised states3 Artsakh1 DNR LNR Transnistria Former countries Czechoslovakia East Germany Serbia and Montenegro Soviet Union1 Yugoslavia Heads of government UN members and observers Albania Andorra Armenia1 Austria Azerbaijan1 Belarus Belgium Bosnia and Herzegovina Bulgaria Croatia Cyprus1 Czech Republic Denmark Estonia Finland France Georgia1 Germany Greece Hungary Iceland Ireland Italy Kazakhstan1 Latvia Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Malta Moldova Monaco Montenegro Netherlands North Macedonia Norway Poland Portugal Romania Russian Federation1 San Marino Serbia Slovakia Slovenia Sovereign Military Order of Malta Spain Sweden Switzerland Turkey1 Ukraine United Kingdom Vatican City Partially recognised2 Abkhazia1 Kosovo Northern Cyprus1 South Ossetia1 Unrecognised states3 Artsakh1 Transnistria Former countries Czechoslovakia East Germany Serbia and Montenegro Soviet Union1 Yugoslavia 1. Partially or entirely in Asia, depending on geographical definition. 2. Recognised by at least one United Nations member. 3. Not recognised by any United Nations members. v t e Prime ministers Prime Ministers by country Abkhazia Afghanistan Albania Algeria Antigua and Barbuda Armenia Aruba Australia Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Bermuda Bhutan Bosnia and Herzegovina Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Central African Republic Chad Congo (Republic) Congo (Democratic Republic) Cook Islands Croatia Cuba Curaçao Northern Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica East Timor Egypt Equatorial Guinea Estonia Ethiopia Faroe Islands Fiji Finland France Gabon Georgia Greece Greenland Grenada Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Hungary Iceland India Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jordan Kazakhstan North Korea South Korea Kosovo Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Laos Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Libya Lithuania Luxembourg Madagascar Malaysia Mali Malta Mauritania Mauritius Moldova Mongolia Montenegro Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nepal Netherlands New Zealand Niue North Macedonia Norway Pakistan Palestine Papua New Guinea Peru Poland Portugal Qatar Romania Russia Rwanda Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa São Tomé and Principe Saudi Arabia Serbia Singapore Sint Maarten Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Ossetia Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Swaziland Sweden Syria Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom Uzbekistan Vanuatu Vietnam Yemen Western Sahara Defunct Title Angola Benin Brazil Comoros Ghana Indonesia Iran Kenya Maldives Nagorno-Karabakh Nigeria Philippines Senegal Seychelles South Africa Turkey Turkmenistan Zambia Zimbabwe Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Prime_Minister_of_Romania&oldid=1057427506" Categories: Prime Ministers of Romania 1862 establishments in Romania Hidden categories: CS1 Romanian-language sources (ro) Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Use dmy dates from February 2013 Articles containing Romanian-language text Articles with Romanian-language sources (ro) AC with 0 elements Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants expanded collapsed Views Read Edit View history More expanded collapsed Search Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Languages ??????? ?????????? ????????? Català Eesti ???????? Español Français Galego ??? Italiano Bahasa Melayu ??? Român? ??????? Simple English ?????? / srpski Suomi Vèneto Ti?ng Vi?t ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 27 November 2021, at 15:50 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement