Nicolae Ciuc? - Wikipedia
Nicolae Ciuc? - Wikipedia Nicolae Ciuc? From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search 70th Prime Minister of Romania Nicolae Ciuc? 70th Prime Minister of Romania Incumbent Assumed office 25 November 2021 President Klaus Iohannis Deputy Hunor Kelemen Sorin Grindeanu Preceded by Florin Cî?u Acting 7 December 2020 – 23 December 2020 President Klaus Iohannis Deputy Raluca Turcan Preceded by Ludovic Orban Succeeded by Florin Cî?u Minister of National Defence In office 4 November 2019 – 25 November 2021 Prime Minister Ludovic Orban Himself Florin Cî?u Preceded by Gabriel-Beniamin Le? [ro] Succeeded by Vasile Dîncu Senator of Romania Incumbent Assumed office 21 December 2020 Constituency Dolj County Chief of the Romanian General Staff In office 1 January 2015 – 28 October 2019 President Klaus Iohannis Preceded by ?tefan D?nil? [ro] Succeeded by Daniel Petrescu Personal details Born (1967-02-07) 7 February 1967 (age 54) Pleni?a, Dolj County, Romania Political party National Liberal Party (2020–present) Awards Ordre national du Mérite, Commander rank National Order of Merit (Romania), Commander rank Order of the Star of Romania, Officer rank Legion of Merit Military service Branch/service Romanian Land Forces Years of service 1985–2019 Rank General Commands 26th Infantry Battalion "Red Scorpions" Chief of the Romanian General Staff Battles/wars War in Afghanistan Iraq War Nicolae Ionel Ciuc? ([niko?la.e ?t???uk?]; born 7 February 1967) is a Romanian politician and retired general of the Romanian Land Forces. He is currently serving as Prime Minister of Romania since 25 November 2021 after receiving widespread parliamentary support. Ciuc? has participated in the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. He was the Chief of the Romanian General Staff from 2015 to 2019, and from 2019 to 2021, he was the Minister of Defence. He briefly led as caretaker of the government between 7 and 23 December 2020, in the aftermath of Prime Minister Ludovic Orban's resignation. On 21 October 2021, he was appointed by President Klaus Iohannis to form a new government, following the dissolution of the Cî?u Cabinet and rejection of Dacian Ciolo? as Prime Minister, but subsequently submitted his term. Iohannis nominated him again on 22 November 2021. Contents 1 Early life and military career 2 Political career 3 Awards 4 Personal life 5 See also 6 References Early life and military career[edit] He was born in Pleni?a, a commune in Dolj County. He graduated from the Military Lyceum "Tudor Vladimirescu" in Craiova in 1985 and from the Nicolae B?lcescu Land Forces Academy in Sibiu in 1988.[1] During his military career, he participated in missions in Afghanistan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Iraq. From 2001 to 2004 he was commander of the 26th Infantry Battalion (also known as the Red Scorpions), with which he participated in Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan and Operation Ancient Babylon in Iraq. In May 2004, at Nasiriyah, Iraq, he led Romanian troops in an armed engagement, reportedly the first battle in which Romanians were "active combatants" since World War II.[1] He was promoted to the rank of General on 25 October 2010.[1][2] In 2015, he replaced ?tefan D?nil? [ro] as Chief of the Romanian General Staff.[3] His 4-year post under this office was extended for another year by the Romanian President Klaus Iohannis in 2018.[1][3] This caused a conflict between Iohannis, the Prime Minister Viorica D?ncil?, and the then Minister of Defense, Gabriel-Beniamin Le? [ro], who intended to change office.[3] Political career[edit] See also: Ciuc? Cabinet The National Liberal Party (PNL) proposed Ciuc? as Minister of Defense of the First Orban Cabinet.[2][1] He was transferred as a reserve on 28 October 2019,[3] being succeeded as Chief of the Romanian General Staff by Daniel Petrescu.[4] He became the Minister of Defence of Romania on 4 November 2019.[5] In October 2020, he joined the National Liberal Party (PNL) to run as a senator for the Senate of Romania in the next legislative elections[6] and was elected.[7] On 7 December 2020, following the resignation of Prime Minister Ludovic Orban, he was named the acting Prime Minister by Iohannis. He led as caretaker the government until a new coalition government was formed under Florin Cî?u in 23 December as a consequence of the result of the 2020 Romanian legislative election.[8][9] However, after the Cî?u Cabinet was dissolved through a motion of no confidence on 5 October 2021,[10] Iohannis nominated Ciuc? as Prime Minister-designate on 21 October 2021.[11] While the Magyar Democratic Union of Romania (UDMR) quickly agreed to renew a minority government with the PNL, the Social Democratic Party (PSD) offered to support him temporarily during the COVID-19 pandemic in exchange for agreeing to 10 measures.[12] He presented his government on 29 October.[13] Having failed to win the support of the PSD or the Union for the Salvation of Romania (USR), he gave up forming a government on 1 November.[14] Ciuc? submitted his term as prime minister on 1 November 2021.[15] Ciuc? was nominated again as Prime Minister-designate on 22 November 2021[16] and was confirmed by the parliament on 25 November after receiving 318 votes in favor.[17] He was sworn in the office hours later.[18] Awards[edit] Ciuc? is the recipient of the Ordre national du Mérite of the French Republic, Commander rank,[19] and of the National Order of Merit of Romania, Commander rank.[20] In 2019 he was awarded the Order of the Star of Romania, Officer rank.[21] In 2020 he was awarded the Legion of Merit by U.S. Ambassador Adrian Zuckerman.[22] Personal life[edit] Currently, Ciuc? is married and has a child.[1] See also[edit] Orban I Cabinet Orban II Cabinet Cî?u Cabinet Ciuc? Cabinet References[edit] ^ a b c d e f Cozmei, Victor (24 October 2019). "Cine este Nicolae Ciuc?, propus ministrul Ap?r?rii: militar de carier?, cunoscut ca "generalul de?ertului", a condus în Irak prima b?talie a solda?ilor români dup? al doilea r?zboi mondial". HotNews (in Romanian). ^ a b "Klaus Iohannis a semnat decretul privind trecerea în rezerv? a generalului Nicolae Ciuc?, propus ministru al Ap?r?rii". Digi24 (in Romanian). 28 October 2019. ^ a b c d Postelnicu, Valentina (5 November 2019). "Cine este Nicolae Ciuc?, ministrul Ap?r?rii Na?ionale. Militarul cu cel mai mare grad din Armat?, este generalul român care a condus personal o misiune de lupt?, în Irak". Libertatea (in Romanian). ^ "Generalul-locotenent Daniel Petrescu, noul ?ef al Statului Major al Ap?r?rii" (in Romanian). Ministry of National Defence. 29 November 2019. ^ N?stase, Mirabela (4 November 2019). "Cine este Nicolae Ciuc?, noul ministru al Ap?r?rii Na?ionale". Antena 1 (in Romanian). ^ "Ministrul ap?r?rii, Nicolae Ciuc?, s-a înscris în PNL ?i va candida pentru Senat" (in Romanian). Digi24. 18 October 2020. ^ "Nicolae-Ionel Ciuc?". www.cdep.ro (in Romanian). Parliament of Romania. ^ "Nicolae Ciuc? a fost numit prim-ministru interimar" (in Romanian). Digi24. 7 December 2020. ^ "Noul Guvern de coali?ie condus de Florin Cî?u a fost învestit de Parlament. Mesajul lui Iohannis, la ceremonia de învestire". Mediafax (in Romanian). 23 December 2020. ^ Adam, Georgiana (5 October 2021). "Guvernul Cî?u a picat. Mo?iunea de cenzur? a trecut cu 281 de voturi". Antena 3 (in Romanian). ^ P?curar, Bogdan (21 October 2021). "Klaus Iohannis: "Am decis s?-l desemnez drept candidat pentru func?ia de prim-ministru pe Nicolae Ciuc?"". Digi24 (in Romanian). ^ "PSD: Ciolacu a discutat telefonic cu premierul desemnat; i-a cerut includerea în programul de guvernare a 10 m?suri urgente" (in Romanian). Agerpres. 23 October 2021. ^ "Nicolae Ciuc? va merge în Parlament cu un guvern minoritar PNL-UDMR. Iat? lista mini?trilor: USR nu voteaz? noul cabinet". Economica. 29 October 2021. ^ "Romania's crisis continues as latest PM-designate throws in the towel". Euronews. 25 November 2021. Retrieved 25 November 2021. ^ "Ciuc?: Am depus mandatul de premier desemnat. Biroul Executiv a cerut. Cî?u: Propunerea de premier va fi decizia partidului" (in Romanian). Digi24. 1 November 2021. ^ "Iohannis: Îl desemnez pe Nicolae Ciuc? pentru a forma o echip? guvernamental?. S-a format o majoritate solid? PNL, PSD, UDMR ?i grupul minorit??ilor / Ciuc?: Sper?m ca de joi s? ne apuc?m serios de treab?" (in Romanian). G4 Media. 22 November 2021. Retrieved 22 November 2021. ^ Ro?ca, Matei (25 November 2021). "Romanian parliament elects Nicolae Ciuc? as prime minister". Politico. Retrieved 25 November 2021. ^ "Romanian President Swears In New Government, Declares 'Political Crisis Over'". Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty. 25 November 2021. Retrieved 25 November 2021. ^ "Cine este Nicolae Ciuc?, premierul interimar. A primit Ordinul Na?ional de Merit al Republicii Franceze" (in Romanian). EuropaFM. 8 December 2020. Retrieved 27 November 2021. ^ "Nicolae Ciuc?, prim-ministru desemnat (fi?? biografic?)" (in Romanian). Agerpres. 30 October 2021. Retrieved 27 November 2021. ^ "Ordinul Na?ional Steaua României a fost conferit directorului SRI ?i ministrului ap?r?rii na?ionale". www.juridice.ro (in Romanian). 29 November 2019. Retrieved 27 November 2021. ^ "Ambassador Adrian Zuckerman at the Awarding of Legion of Merit to Acting Prime Minister Nicolae Ionel Ciuca". ro.usembassy.gov. U.S. Embassy in Romania. 15 December 2020. Retrieved 27 November 2021. Military offices Preceded by ?tefan D?nil? Chief of the Romanian General Staff 2015–2019 Succeeded by Daniel Petrescu Political offices Preceded by Gabriel-Beniamin Le? Minister of National Defence 2019–2021 Succeeded by Vasile Dîncu Preceded by Ludovic Orban Prime Minister of Romania Acting 2020 Succeeded by Florin Cî?u Preceded by Florin Cî?u Prime Minister of Romania 2021–present Incumbent v t e Prime ministers of Romania List of heads of government of Romania United Principalities B. Catargiu Arsache N. Cre?ulescu Kog?lniceanu Bosianu N. Cre?ulescu I. Ghica L. Catargiu I. Ghica C. Cre?ulescu ?. Golescu N. Golescu D. Ghica A. Golescu Epureanu I. Ghica L. Catargiu Florescu Epureanu Ion C. Br?tianu Kingdom of Romania Ion C. Br?tianu D. Br?tianu Ion C. Br?tianu Rosetti L. Catargiu Manu Florescu L. Catargiu Sturdza Aurelian Sturdza Cantacuzino Carp Sturdza Cantacuzino Sturdza Ion I. C. Br?tianu Carp Maiorescu Ion I. C. Br?tianu Averescu Marghiloman Coand? Ion I. C. Br?tianu V?itoianu Vaida-Voevod Averescu Ionescu Ion I. C. Br?tianu Averescu ?tirbey Ion I. C. Br?tianu V. Br?tianu Maniu Mironescu Maniu Mironescu Iorga Vaida-Voevod Maniu Vaida-Voevod Duca Angelescu T?t?rescu Goga Cristea C?linescu Arge?anu Argetoianu T?t?rescu Gigurtu Antonescu S?n?tescu R?descu Groza R.P.R.—R.S.R. Groza Gheorghiu-Dej Stoica Maurer M?nescu Verde? D?sc?lescu Romania since 1989 Roman Stolojan V?c?roiu Ciorbea Dejeu Vasile Athanasiu Is?rescu N?stase Bejinariu Popescu-T?riceanu Boc Predoiu Ungureanu Ponta Oprea Ponta Oprea Ponta Cîmpeanu Ciolo? Grindeanu Tudose Fifor D?ncil? Orban Ciuc? Cî?u Ciuc? Italics indicate interim officeholders. v t e Defence Ministers of Romania United Principalities Principality of Romania Vl?doianu · Macedonski · Cornescu · Florescu · Golescu · Adrian · S?m??escu · Grigore Ghica · Iacovache · Manu · Solomon · Lecca · Haralambie · Gherghel · I.C. Br?tianu · Duca · Manu · Pencovici · Tell · Sl?niceanu · Cernat · Dabija Kingdom of Romania Gheorghe Angelescu · F?lcoianu · Alexandru Anghelescu · Barozzi · Vl?descu · Lahovary · Catargiu · Poenaru · Budi?teanu · Stoicescu · Berindei · Sturdza · Averescu · Stelian · Cr?iniceanu · Filipescu · Argetoianu · Hârjeu · I. I. C. Br?tianu · Vintil? Br?tianu · Iancovescu · Grigorescu · V?itoianu · R??canu · Mo?oiu · Holban · M?rd?rescu · Mircescu · Paul Angelescu · Cihoski · Maniu · Condeescu · ?tef?nescu Amza · Samsonovici · Uic? · T?t?rescu · Irimescu · Ilasievici · Antonescu · Arge?anu · Ciuperc? · C?linescu · Ilcu? · Nicolescu · Iacobici · Pantazi · Racovi?? · S?n?tescu · Negulescu · Ra?canu · Lasc?r Socialist Republic Bodn?ra? · S?l?jan · Ioni?? · Coman · Olteanu · Milea Romania since 1989 Militaru · St?nculescu · Spiroiu · Tinca · Babiuc · Ionescu · Frunz?verde · Pa?cu · Atanasiu · Frunz?verde · Mele?canu · St?ni?oar? · Oprea · Dobri?oiu · Du?a · Motoc · Le? · ?u?uianu · Fifor · Le? · Ciuc? v t e Chief of the General Staff of Romania Grigore G?rdescu Istratie S?m??escu Ion Emanuel Florescu Gheorghe Sl?niceanu Constantin Barozzi ?tefan F?lcoianu Alexandru Cernat Nicolae Dona Iacob Lahovary Constantin Poenaru Alexandru C?rc?leteanu Nicolae T?t?r?scu Grigore C. Cr?iniceanu Ion Istrati Vasile Zottu Alexandru Averescu Constantin Christescu Dumitru Iliescu Constantin Prezan Alexandru Gorski Alexandru Lupescu Nicolae Samsonovici Constantin L?z?rescu Ion Antonescu Ion Sichitiu ?tefan Gh. Ionescu Florea ?enescu Gheorghe Mihail Alexandru Ioani?iu Iosif Iacobici Ilie ?teflea Nicolae R?descu Constantin S?n?tescu Costin Iona?cu Constantin Gh. Popescu Leontin S?l?jan Ion Tutoveanu Ion Gheorghe Ion Coman Ion Hortopan Vasile Milea ?tefan Gu?? Vasile Ionel Dumitru Cioflin? Constantin Degeratu Mircea Chelaru Mihail Eugen Popescu Eugen B?d?lan Gheorghe Marin ?tefan D?nil? Nicolae Ciuc? Daniel Petrescu v t e Supreme Council of National Defence (CSAT) President Klaus Iohannis (P) Vice President Ludovic Orban (PM) Members Nicolae Ciuc? (MApN) Marcel Vela (MAI) Bogdan Aurescu (MAE) C?t?lin Predoiu (MJ) Virgil-Daniel Popescu (MECT) Florin Cî?u (MFP) Eduard Hellvig (SRI) Gabriel Vlase (SIE) Daniel Petrescu (SMG) Ion Opri?or (PC) Mihai ?omordolea (Secretary) v t e Ciuc? Cabinet (2021–present) 132nd Government of Romania Prime Minister Nicolae Ciuc? Deputy Prime Ministers Sorin Grindeanu Hunor Kelemen Secretary-General Marian Neac?u [ro] Ministers Lucian Bode (Internal Affairs) Bogdan Aurescu (Foreign Affairs) Vasile Dîncu (Defence) C?t?lin Predoiu (Justice) Sorin Cîmpeanu (Education) Marius Bud?i [ro] (Labour) Adrian Câciu [ro] (Finance) Florin Sp?taru [ro] (Economy) Gabriela Firea (Family) Alexandru Rafila (Health) Eduard Novak (Sport) Attila Cseke (Development) Dan Vîlceanu (Investments) Sorin Grindeanu (Transport) Constantin Cadariu [ro] (Entrepreneurship and Tourism) Barna Tánczos (Environment) Virgil Popescu (Energy) Lucian Roma?canu [ro] (Culture) Florin Roman (Digitalization) Events 2021 Romanian political crisis COVID-19 pandemic in Romania vaccination campaign PSD minister PNL minister UDMR minister Independent minister ? Cî?u Authority control Integrated Authority File (Germany) VIAF 1 WorldCat Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Nicolae_Ciuc?&oldid=1057662786" Categories: 1967 births Living people People from Dolj County Romanian Land Forces generals People of the Iraq War Chiefs of the General Staff of Romania 21st-century Romanian politicians Romanian Ministers of Defence Prime Ministers of Romania Recipients of the Legion of Merit Commanders of the National Order of Merit (France) Officers of the Order of the Star of Romania Recipients of the National Order of Merit (Romania) Hidden categories: CS1 Romanian-language sources (ro) Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Use dmy dates from November 2021 Articles with GND identifiers Articles with VIAF identifiers Articles with WORLDCATID identifiers Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants expanded collapsed Views Read Edit View history More expanded collapsed Search Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Languages ??????? ?????????? Deutsch Eesti Español Français ??? Bahasa Indonesia Italiano ????? Latina Magyar Nederlands ??? Polski Português Român? ??????? ?????????? Edit links This page was last edited on 28 November 2021, at 23:06 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement