Learned society - Wikipedia
Learned society - Wikipedia Learned society From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Organization that exists to promote an academic discipline or profession This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Learned society" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (May 2013) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) 200th anniversary of Berlin Academy, 1900 A learned society (/?l??rn?d/; also known as a learned academy, scholarly society, or academic association) is an organization that exists to promote an academic discipline, profession, or a group of related disciplines such as the arts and science.[1] Membership may be open to all, may require possession of some qualification, or may be an honour conferred by election.[2] Most learned societies are non-profit organizations, and many are professional associations. Their activities typically include holding regular conferences for the presentation and discussion of new research results and publishing or sponsoring academic journals in their discipline. Some also act as professional bodies, regulating the activities of their members in the public interest or the collective interest of the membership. Contents 1 History 2 Significance 3 Structure 4 Membership and fellowship 5 Online academic communities 6 See also 7 References 8 External links History[edit] Some of the oldest learned societies are the Académie des Jeux floraux (founded 1323),[3] the Sodalitas Litterarum Vistulana (founded 1488), the Accademia della Crusca (founded 1583),[4] the Accademia dei Lincei (founded 1603),[5] the Académie Française (founded 1635),[6] the Academy of Sciences Leopoldina (founded 1652),[7] the Royal Society of London (founded 1660) and the French Academy of Sciences (founded 1666). Significance[edit] Scholars in the sociology of science[who?] argue that learned societies are of key importance and their formation assists in the emergence and development of new disciplines or professions.[8] Structure[edit] Societies can be very general in nature, such as the American Association for the Advancement of Science, specific to a given discipline, such as the Modern Language Association, or specific to a given area of study, such as the Royal Entomological Society. Most are either specific to a particular country (e.g. the Entomological Society of Israel), though they generally include some members from other countries as well, often with local branches, or are international, such as the International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions (IFLA) or the Regional Studies Association, in which case they often have national branches. But many are local, such as the Massachusetts Medical Society, the publishers of the internationally known New England Journal of Medicine. Some learned societies (such as the Royal Society Te Ap?rangi) have been rechartered by legislation to form quasi-autonomous non-governmental organizations. Membership and fellowship[edit] "Fellow (learned society)" redirects here. For other uses, see Fellow. Membership may be open to all, may require possession of some qualification, or may be an honor conferred by election.[2] Some societies offer membership to those who have an interest in a particular subject or discipline, provided they pay their membership fees. Older and more academic/professional societies may offer associateships and/or fellowships to fellows who are appropriately qualified by honoris causa, or by submission of a portfolio of work or an original thesis. A benefit of membership may be discounts on the subscription rates for the publications of the society. Many of these societies award post-nominal letters to their memberships. Online academic communities[edit] Following the globalization and the development of information technology, certain scholarly societies—such as the Modern Language Association—have created virtual communities for their members. In addition to established academic associations, academic virtual communities have been so organized that, in some cases, they have become more important platforms for interaction and scientific collaborations among researchers and faculty than have traditional scholarly societies.[citation needed] Members of these online academic communities, grouped by areas of interests, use for their communication shared and dedicated listservs (for example JISCMail), social networking services (like Facebook, LinkedIn) and academic oriented social networks (like Mendeley, Academia.edu).[9][10] See also[edit] Science portal Main category: Learned societies Academic conferences List of learned societies National academy Professional association Text publication society References[edit] ^ "The Environmental Studies Association of Canada - What is a Learned Society?". Archived from the original on 29 May 2013. Retrieved 10 May 2013. ^ a b "Learned societies & academies". Archived from the original on 3 June 2014. Retrieved 10 May 2013. ^ Express, 1&1 TopSite. "Accueil/Actualité - Académie des Jeux floraux". jeuxfloraux.fr. Archived from the original on 6 March 2018. Retrieved 8 May 2018. ^ "The reopening of the Accademia (1811) and the fifth edition of the Vocabolario (1863-1923) | Accademia della Crusca". 2015-03-01. Archived from the original on 2015-03-01. Retrieved 2021-06-08. ^ "The Galileo Project | Galileo | Federico Cesi and the Accademia dei Lincei". 2018-07-14. Archived from the original on 2018-07-14. Retrieved 2021-06-08. ^ "L'histoire | Académie française". www.academie-francaise.fr. Retrieved 2021-06-08. ^ Jedlitschka, Karsten (2008-06-20). "The Archive of the German Academy of Sciences Leopoldina in Halle (Saale): more than 350 years of the history of science". Notes and Records of the Royal Society. 62 (2): 237–244. doi:10.1098/rsnr.2007.0009. S2CID 73386192. ^ Wise, Alicia; Estelle, Lorraine (2019-07-12). "How Learned Societies and Open Access Will Learn to Co-Exist". Social Science Space. Retrieved 2021-06-08. ^ "How virtual science communities are transforming academic research". Archived from the original on 10 August 2014. Retrieved 10 May 2013. ^ Nistor, Nicolae; Baltes, Beate; Dasc?lu, Mihai; Mih?il?, Dan; Smeaton, George; Tr?u?an-Matu, ?tefan (May 2014). "Participation in virtual academic communities of practice under the influence of technology acceptance and community factors. A learning analytics application". Computers in Human Behavior. 34: 339–344. doi:10.1016/j.chb.2013.10.051. External links[edit] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Learned societies. Wikisource has the text of a 1911 Encyclopædia Britannica article about Learned society. Scholarly Societies Project from the University of Waterloo Libraries—database of hundreds of scholarly societies in various fields, including some of the oldest societies Eclectica, virtual exhibit on the history of Canadian learned societies v t e Phaleristics Auxiliary science of history and numismatics about orders, decorations, and medals Distinctions (Lists) By conferee Founts of honour* States and their national/public/official authorities Dynasties heads of currently or formerly sovereign royal families Private Ecclesiastical Organisations Commercial (Self-styled order) By type Orders Order of chivalry Military order Colonial order Order of merit Royal family order Titles (Styles, Post-nominal By function Grand master Chancellor Treasurer Assessor Bailiff Prior Chaplain Master of ceremonies Grand Cross/Grand Cordon Commander Officer Hospitaller Knight/Dame Postulant Squire Page Jurisdictions Charter Bailiwick Chapter Commandery Obedience Grand Lodge Lodge Others, by field Military (List) List of highest Campaign medal Law enforcement Civilian (List) Society Peace Intellectual freedom Human rights Law Humanitarianism Politics Volunteer Culture Architecture Art Film History Literature Music Philosophy Poetry Theatre Science Religion-related Ecclesiastical Sports Scouting Beauty By insignia (Named after people) For wearing (decorations) Formal Collar Grand Cross/Grand Cordon with sash Medal Necklet Medal bar Medal ribbon Other Rosette Award pin Lapel pin Collar pin Tie pin Badge Heraldic Pilgrim Ring Button Campaign Service Prizes Trophy Plaquette Rosette Money Prizes known as the Nobel of a field Ceremonies and events Accolade Vigil Feoffment Passage fee Festival Vow Collar day Related organisations Fraternity Fraternal order Confraternity Secret society Guild Learned society Fellowship Honor society Hereditary society Club Gentlemen's club International Commission for Orders of Chivalry Related concepts Numismatics Heraldry Vexillology Service flag Battle honour Campaign streamer Nobility Order of precedence Honorary degree Devotional medal Awareness ribbon * = Direct or indirect reference to fount of honour is the accepted criterion for official distinctions Category:Orders, decorations, and medals Wikipedia:WikiProject Orders, decorations, and medals Wikipedia:WikiProject Awards v t e Academic publishing Journals Academic journal Scientific journal Open access journal Public health journal Papers Scholarly paper Review article Position paper Literature review Grey literature Working paper White paper Technical report Annual report Pamphlet Essay Lab notes Other types of publication Thesis (Collection of articles, Monograph) Specialized patent (biological, chemical) Book Book chapter Poster session Abstract Impact and ranking Acknowledgment index Altmetrics Article-level metrics Author-level metrics Bibliometrics Citation impact Citation index Journal ranking Eigenfactor h-index Impact factor SCImago Journal Rank Scientometrics Reform Academic journal publishing reform Full-text-on-the-Net bias (FUTON bias) Open access Serials crisis Sci-Hub #ICanHazPDF Versioning Preprint Postprint Version of Record Erratum/corrigendum Retraction Indexes and search engines Google Scholar AMiner BASE Microsoft Academic CORE Semantic Scholar Scopus Web of Science Related topics Imprint Scientific writing Peer review Proceedings Scientific literature Learned society Open research Open science data ORCID Electronic publishing Ingelfinger rule Least publishable unit Publish or perish Lists Academic journals Scientific journals Open-access journals Academic databases and search engines University presses Copyright policies Preprint policies Style/formatting guides Category:Academic publishing Category:Scientific documents Portal Authority control National libraries Spain France (data) United States Japan Other Internet Encyclopedia of Ukraine SUDOC (France) 1 Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Learned_society&oldid=1036371885" Categories: Learned societies Scientific organizations Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Articles needing additional references from May 2013 All articles needing additional references All articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases Articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from September 2014 All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from September 2014 Commons category link from Wikidata Articles with BNE identifiers Articles with BNF identifiers Articles with LCCN identifiers Articles with NDL identifiers Articles with IEU identifiers Articles with SUDOC identifiers Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants expanded collapsed Views Read Edit View history More expanded collapsed Search Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikisource Languages ??????? Az?rbaycanca ????? Català ?eština Deutsch Español Euskara ????? Français Galego ??? Bahasa Indonesia ????? ??????? ???? Bahasa Melayu ??? ?????? Português ??????? ?????? / srpski Svenska ??? Türkçe ?????????? ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 31 July 2021, at 04:14 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement