Peder Severin Krøyer - Wikipedia
Peder Severin Krøyer - Wikipedia Peder Severin Krøyer From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search This article includes a list of references, related reading or external links, but its sources remain unclear because it lacks inline citations. Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. (July 2021) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Danish painter This article may be expanded with text translated from the corresponding article in Danish. (January 2021) Click [show] for important translation instructions. View a machine-translated version of the Danish article. Machine translation like DeepL or Google Translate is a useful starting point for translations, but translators must revise errors as necessary and confirm that the translation is accurate, rather than simply copy-pasting machine-translated text into the English Wikipedia. Consider adding a topic to this template: there are already 409 articles in the main category, and specifying|topic= will aid in categorization. Do not translate text that appears unreliable or low-quality. If possible, verify the text with references provided in the foreign-language article. You must provide copyright attribution in the edit summary accompanying your translation by providing an interlanguage link to the source of your translation. A model attribution edit summary is Content in this edit is translated from the existing Danish Wikipedia article at [[:da:P.S. Krøyer]]; see its history for attribution. You should also add the template {{Translated|da|P.S. Krøyer}} to the talk page. For more guidance, see Wikipedia:Translation. Peder Severin Krøyer Self portrait, 1897 Born Peder Severin Krøyer (1851-07-23)23 July 1851 Stavanger, Sweden-Norway Died 21 November 1909(1909-11-21) (aged 58) Skagen, Denmark Nationality Danish Education Royal Danish Academy of Art Known for Painting Notable work Summer Evening at Skagen. The Artist's Wife and Dog by the Shore Movement Impressionism Peder Severin Krøyer (Danish: [?p?e??ð? ?se?v???i?n ?k???j??]; 23 July 1851 – 21 November 1909), also known as P. S. Krøyer, was a Danish painter. Contents 1 Life 1.1 Growing up and early training 1.2 Early career 1.3 Travels 1.4 Krøyer comes to Skagen 1.5 Krøyer and Marie 2 Works 3 Gallery 4 See also 5 References 6 Literature 7 External links Life[edit] Portrait of Peder Severin Krøyer by Laurits Tuxen Growing up and early training[edit] Krøyer was born in Stavanger, Norway, on 23 July 1851 to Ellen Cecilie Gjesdal. He was raised by Gjesdal's sister, Bertha Cecilie (born 1817) and brother-in-law, the Danish zoologist Henrik Nikolai Krøyer, after his mother was judged unfit to care for him. Krøyer moved to Copenhagen to live with his foster parents soon afterward. Having begun his art education at the age of nine under private tutelage, he was enrolled in Copenhagen's Technical Institute the following year. In 1870 at the age of 19 Krøyer completed his studies at the Royal Danish Academy of Art (Det Kongelige Danske Kunstakademi), where he had studied with Frederik Vermehren. In 1873 he was awarded the gold medal, as well as a scholarship. Early career[edit] Hip, Hip, Hurrah!, 1888 His official debut as a painter was in 1871 at Charlottenborg with a portrait of a friend, the painter Frans Schwartz. He exhibited regularly at Charlottenborg throughout his life. In 1874 Heinrich Hirschsprung bought his first painting from Krøyer, establishing a long-standing patronage. Hirschsprung's collection of art forms the basis of the Hirschsprung Museum in Copenhagen. Travels[edit] Between 1877 and 1881, Krøyer travelled extensively in Europe, meeting artists, studying art, and developing his skills and outlook. He stayed in Paris and studied under Léon Bonnat, and undoubtedly came under the influence of contemporary impressionists – Claude Monet, Alfred Sisley, Edgar Degas, Pierre-Auguste Renoir and Édouard Manet. He continued to travel throughout his life, constantly drawing inspiration from foreign artists and cultures. Hirschsprung provided financial support during the early travels, and Krøyer continued exhibiting in Denmark throughout this period. Krøyer comes to Skagen[edit] Paul Gustav Fischer: P. S. Krøyer at the easel painting Boys bathing, 1893 In 1882 he returned to Denmark. He spent June–October at Skagen, then a remote fishing village on the northern tip of Denmark, painting themes from local life, as well as depictions of the artistic community there. He would continue to be associated with the developing art and literary scene at Skagen. Other artists at Skagen included writers Holger Drachmann, Georg Brandes and Henrik Pontoppidan, and artists Michael Ancher and Anna Ancher. Krøyer divided his time between rented houses in Skagen during the summer, a winter apartment in Copenhagen where he worked on his large commissioned portraits, and travel outside of the country. Krøyer and Marie[edit] See also: P.S. Krøyer's paintings of Marie On a trip to Paris in 1888 he encountered Marie Martha Mathilde Triepcke, whom he had known in Copenhagen. They fell in love and, after a whirlwind romance, married on 23 July 1889 at her parents' home in Germany. Marie Krøyer, who was also a painter, became associated with the Skagen community, and after their marriage was often featured in Krøyer's paintings. The couple had one child, a daughter named Vibeke, born in January 1895. They were divorced in 1905 following a prolonged separation. Krøyer's eyesight failed him gradually over the last ten years of his life until he was totally blind. Ever the optimist, he painted almost to the end, in spite of health obstacles. In fact, he painted some of his last masterpieces while half-blind, joking that the eyesight in his one working eye had become better with the loss of the other eye. Krøyer died in 1909 in Skagen at 58 years of age after years of declining health. He had also been in and out of hospitals, suffering from bouts of mental illness. Works[edit] Summer Evening on Skagen's Southern Beach with Anna Ancher and Marie Krøyer, P. S. Krøyer, 1893 Krøyer's best known and best-loved work is entitled Summer Evening on Skagen's Southern Beach with Anna Ancher and Marie Krøyer (Sommeraften ved Skagen Sønderstrand med Anna Ancher og Marie Krøyer), 1893. He painted many beach scenes featuring both recreation life on the beach (bathers, strollers), and local fishermen. Another popular work is Midsummer Eve Bonfire on Skagen Beach (Sankthansbål på Skagen strand), 1906. This large-scale work features a great crowd of the artistic and influential Skagen community gathered around a large bonfire on the beach on Saint John's Eve (Midsummer Eve). Both of these works are in the permanent collection of the Skagens Museum which is dedicated to that community of artists, including those who gathered around Krøyer, a great organizer and bon vivant. Gallery[edit] The Hirschsprung family, 1881 In the store when there is no fishing, 1882 Artists' Luncheon at Skagen, 1883 Fishermen hauling nets, North Beach, Skagen, 1883 Summer Day on Skagen's Southern Beach 1884 Committee for the French Art Exhibition in Copenhagen 1888, 1888 Osteria in Ravello, 1890 Loggia in Ravello, 1890 Marie Krøyer, 1891 Summer Evening at Skagen. The Artist's Wife and Dog by the Shore, 1892 A breakfast. The artist, his wife and the writer Otto Benzon, 1893 Roses, 1893 From the Bourse of Copenhagen, 1895 The Benzon daughters, 1897 Summer Evening at Skagen Beach – The Artist and his Wife, 1899 Midsummer Eve Bonfire on Skagen Beach, 1906 See also[edit] List of Danish painters List of paintings by Peder Severin Krøyer Skagen Painters References[edit] KID Kunst Index Danmark ("Art Index Denmark") Danish Biographical Encyclopedia ("Dansk Biografisk Lexikon") Literature[edit] Halkier, Katrine (2011). Krøyer: An International Perspective. Hirschsprung Collection. ISBN 978-87-90597-17-7. Hornung, Peter Michael (2005). Peder Severin Krøyer (in Danish). Fogtdal. ISBN 978-87-7248-551-5. Krøyer, Peder Severin (1992). P. S. Krøyer: Tradition, Modernity. Aarhus Kunstmuseum. ISBN 978-87-88575-31-6. Olsen, Claus; Ireland, National Gallery of (1998). Krøyer and the artists' colony at Skagen. National Gallery of Ireland. ISBN 9780903162777. External links[edit] Skagens Museum P. S. Krøyer in Hirschsprungske Samling Another selection of his paintings Jennifer A. Thompson, "Interior of a Tavern by Peter Severin Krøyer (cat. 1015)," in The John G. Johnson Collection: A History and Selected Works[permanent dead link], a Philadelphia Museum of Art free digital publication. Media related to Peder Severin Krøyer at Wikimedia Commons v t e Skagen Painters Associated landmarks Skagens Museum Brøndums Hotel Michael and Anna Ancher's House Drachmann's House Early visitors Christian Blache Vilhelm Melbye Johan Peter Raadsig Martinus Rørbye Main group of painters Anna Ancher Michael Ancher Oscar Björck Viggo Johansen Christian Krohg Johan Krouthén Marie Krøyer P. S. Krøyer (paintings of Marie) Carl Locher Karl Madsen Thorvald Niss Julius Paulsen Eilif Peterssen Associated painters Jørgen Aabye Helga Ancher G. F. Clement Tupsy Clement Wilhelm von Gegerfelt Ella Heide Einar Hein Ludvig Karsten Vilhelm Kyhn Frederik Lange Charles Lundh Anna Palm de Rosa Wilhelm Peters Julius Runge Adrian Stokes Marianne Stokes Fritz Stoltenberg Frits Thaulow Laurits Tuxen Johannes Wilhjelm J. F. Willumsen Other associates Hugo Alfvén Georg Brandes Degn Brøndum Holger Drachmann Heinrich Hirschsprung Ulrik Plesner Henrik Pontoppidan Notable paintings Men of Skagen on a Summer Evening in Fair Weather (1848) Launching the Boat. Skagen (1884) Will He Round the Point? (1885) Hip, Hip, Hurrah! (1888) Sunlight in the Blue Room (1891) Summer Evening at Skagen. The Artist's Wife and Dog by the Shore (1892) Summer Evening on Skagen's Southern Beach (1893) Roses (1893) Summer Evening at Skagen Beach – The Artist and his Wife (1899) Harvesters (1905) Midsummer Eve Bonfire on Skagen Beach (1906) The North Sea in Stormy Weather (1909) Authority control General Integrated Authority File (Germany) VIAF 1 WorldCat National libraries France (data) United States Art research institutes KulturNav (Norway) 2 RKD Artists (Netherlands) Artist Names (Getty) Other SUDOC (France) 1 Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Peder_Severin_Krøyer&oldid=1057576766" Categories: 19th-century Danish painters Danish male painters 20th-century Danish painters Skagen Painters 1851 births 1909 deaths Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts alumni People from Stavanger Norwegian emigrants to Denmark Recipients of the Thorvaldsen Medal Hidden categories: Articles lacking in-text citations from July 2021 All articles lacking in-text citations Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Use dmy dates from August 2017 Articles to be expanded from January 2021 All articles to be expanded Articles needing translation from Danish Wikipedia Articles with hCards Articles containing Danish-language text CS1 Danish-language sources (da) All articles with dead external links Articles with dead external links from January 2021 Articles with permanently dead external links Commons category link is on Wikidata Articles with GND identifiers Articles with VIAF identifiers Articles with WORLDCATID identifiers Articles with BNF identifiers Articles with LCCN identifiers Articles with KULTURNAV identifiers Articles with RKDartists identifiers Articles with ULAN identifiers Articles with SUDOC identifiers Articles with multiple identifiers Articles with suppressed authority control identifiers ACArt with 6 suppressed elements Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants expanded collapsed Views Read Edit View history More expanded collapsed Search Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Languages ??????? Bikol Central Català ?eština Dansk Deutsch Eesti ???????? ?????? Español Esperanto Euskara ????? Français Galego ??? ??????? Bahasa Indonesia Íslenska Italiano Magyar Nederlands ??? Norsk bokmål Norsk nynorsk Polski Português Român? ??????? Shqip Suomi Svenska Türkçe ?????????? Edit links This page was last edited on 28 November 2021, at 12:38 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement