Carlsberg Foundation - Wikipedia
Carlsberg Foundation - Wikipedia Carlsberg Foundation From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search This article needs to be updated. Please help update this article to reflect recent events or newly available information. (July 2020) The Carlsberg Laboratory and in the foreground a statue of its founder J.C. Jacobsen. Carlsberg Foundation (Danish: Carlsbergfondet) was founded by J. C. Jacobsen in 1876, by allocating some of his shares in the Carlsberg Brewery to fund and operate the Carlsberg Laboratory and the Museum of National History at Frederiksborg Palace. The foundation has since expanded to fund scientific research, to manage the Ny Carlsberg Glyptotek, and via the Tuborg Foundation to fund social works. As of 2011[update] it owned 30.3% of the shares in Carlsberg Group and controlled 74.2% of the voting power.[1] Contents 1 History 2 Relations to Carlsberg Brewery 3 See also 4 References 5 External links History[edit] The foundation was started to run Carlsberg Laboratory. To finance its works the foundation received a portion of shares in Carlsberg Brewery. J.C. Jacobsen's wish was to create a foundation with firm obligations to the natural sciences and direct responsibility for the running of a corporate enterprise. In 1878 the foundation started to manage and fund the Museum of National History at Frederiksborg Palace. In 1882 after the death of J. C. Jacobsen the foundation inherited the remaining shares in the brewery. In 1902 Carl Jacobsen (J. C. Jacobsen's son) started the "New Carlsberg Foundation" to run his brewery, New Carlsberg. When the old and new Brewery merged, the obligations of New Carlsberg Foundation were added to those of the Carlsberg foundation, including the management and funding of Ny Carlsberg Glyptotek. In 1931 the foundation started a Scholarship programme named after J. C. Jacobsen. The foundation sponsored the Danish excavation of Tell Shemshara in Iraq in 1957.[2] In 1991 the foundation took over the responsibilities of the "Tuborg Foundation", after Carlsberg acquired Tuborg brewery in 1970. Relations to Carlsberg Brewery[edit] In 1882 at the death of J. C. Jacobsen the foundation inherited the remaining shares in Carlsberg Brewery, the testament stated that the foundation shall always at least own 51% of the brewery. In May 2007 the Danish Foundation Oversight Authority approved that the interpretation of the rules to mean that the foundation should own at least 25% of the capital assets of the brewery and 51% of the voting shares. The shares in Carlsberg are divided into two classes, where the A-class has twenty votes per share and the B-class has two votes per share. As of May 2007 the foundation owns 51.3% of the capital and 81.9% voting capacity in Carlsberg. See also[edit] 5890 Carlsberg An asteroid named in honour of the foundation on the occasion of the 150 years anniversary of J.C. Jacobsen's visit to Munich. Carlsberg Fjord, named after the foundation by Arctic explorer Georg Carl Amdrup in 1898–1900. Carlsberg Meridian Telescope, the first automated meridian instrument, funded by the foundation and operational from 1984 to 2013 Carlsberg Ridge, subsea canyon in the Indian Ocean, discovered by the second Dana expedition (1928-32), funded by the foundation. References[edit] ^ "Archived copy". Archived from the original on 2011-11-11. Retrieved 2011-11-03.CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link) ^ Mortensen, Peder (1970), Tell Shimshara. The Hassuna period, Historisk-Filosofiske Skrifter, 5, 2, Copenhagen: Kongelige Danske videnskabernes selskab, p. 9, OCLC 562453801 External links[edit] Official website Authority control General ISNI 1 VIAF 1 WorldCat National libraries France (data) Czech Republic Other Microsoft Academic SUDOC (France) 1 Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Carlsberg_Foundation&oldid=1002001305" Categories: Foundations based in Denmark Organizations established in 1876 Carlsberg Group 1876 establishments in Denmark Hidden categories: CS1 maint: archived copy as title Wikipedia articles in need of updating from July 2020 All Wikipedia articles in need of updating Articles containing Danish-language text Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2011 All articles containing potentially dated statements Official website different in Wikidata and Wikipedia Articles with ISNI identifiers Articles with VIAF identifiers Articles with WORLDCATID identifiers Articles with BNF identifiers Articles with NKC identifiers Articles with MA identifiers Articles with SUDOC identifiers Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants expanded collapsed Views Read Edit View history More expanded collapsed Search Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version Languages Dansk Deutsch Français Íslenska Norsk bokmål Svenska Edit links This page was last edited on 22 January 2021, at 10:04 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement