Wikiversity
Wikiversity Wikiversity:Main Page From Wikiversity Jump to navigation Jump to search Welcome to Wikiversity Set learning free with 28,906 learning resources and growing. Arts • Humanities • Mathematics • Medicine • Science • Social Sciences • Technology WikiJournals Schools • Courses • Portals • Help Welcome Wikiversity is a Wikimedia Foundation project devoted to learning resources, learning projects, and research for use in all levels, types, and styles of education from pre-school to university, including professional training and informal learning. We invite teachers, students, and researchers to join us in creating open educational resources and collaborative learning communities. To learn more about Wikiversity, try a guided tour, learn about adding content, or start editing now. Today's Featured Project Teaching and Learning Online This is a collection of e-learning projects at Wikiversity created by a variety of pioneers in the field of online education. The collection includes courses (both participatory and non-participatory), articles, papers, lesson collections, events, discussions and ideas in the making. Some of the materials are highly developed and large; others provide plenty of opportunity for enhancement. Visit this resource · see more featured content view · discuss Educational Picture of the Day Glaciated landscape features This diagram shows and names typical features of a landscape left in the wake of a receding glacier. Click on the image for a full size version which you can freely re-use and modify. Print it and use it for your lessons, integrate it into your pages on Wikiversity, or use it in other learning resources and websites. Use the links below to find more images like this one. Earth sciences images - Images of landforms - Glaciology images - Geography images This image is a part of the Educational Media Awareness Campaign, raising awareness among educators about the availability and usage of millions of free internet media in education. view · discuss News 2021 21 October: History of penicillin has been published in the WikiJournal of Medicine. 28 September: Students in ENG 105 at the University of North Carolina Chapel Hill are contributing to Federal Writers' Project – Life Histories. 27 September: An article on The National Center for Science and Engineering Statistics has been published in the WikiJournal of Science. 25 September: Students from West University of Timi?oara, Romania, are learning web technologies. 21 September: Students at Ohlone College are contributing to Digital Media Concepts as part of their study in digital art and technology. 15 September: FH Vorarlberg University of Applied Sciences students are learning virtual teamwork. 31 August Incidental Finding of Complete Bilateral Persistent Sciatic Arteries has been published in the WikiJournal of Medicine. 23 August: First day of classes for the Fall semester of Principles of Radiation Astronomy. 5 August: The WikiJournal of Science has published Structural Model of Bacteriophage T4. 3 August: Motivation and emotion students from the University of Canberra are developing book chapters about unique topics. Wikiversity's sister projects Wikiversity is hosted by the Wikimedia Foundation, a non-profit organization that also hosts a range of other multilingual and free-content projects: Wikipedia Free-content encyclopedia Wikibooks Free textbooks and manuals Commons Shared media repository Wiktionary Dictionary and thesaurus Wikiquote Collection of quotations Wikinews Free-content news Wikispecies Directory of species Wikisource Free-content library Wikivoyage Open travel guide Meta-Wiki Wikimedia project coordination MediaWiki Free software development Wikidata Free knowledge base Wikiversity is also available in other languages: Deutsch • Français • ??????? • ?? • Italiano • ?eština • Português • Español • ??????? • Svenska • Slovenš?ina • Suomi • ???????? • ?????? • ??? • ??? • Other Retrieved from "https://en.wikiversity.org/w/index.php?title=Wikiversity:Main_Page&oldid=2175209" Category: Main Page Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Main page Discuss Variants expanded collapsed Views Read View source View history More expanded collapsed Search Navigation Main Page Browse Recent changes Guided tours Random Help Donate Community Portal Colloquium News Projects Sandbox Help desk Tools What links here Related changes Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Wikimedia projects Commons Wikibooks Wikidata Wikinews Wikipedia Wikiquote Wikisource Wikispecies Wikivoyage Wiktionary Meta-Wiki Outreach MediaWiki Wikimania Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons MediaWiki Meta-Wiki Multilingual Wikisource Wikispecies Wikibooks Wikidata Wikimania Wikinews Wikipedia Wikiquote Wikisource Wikivoyage Wiktionary In other languages ??????? ?eština Deutsch ???????? Español Suomi Français ?????? Italiano ??? ??? Português ??????? Slovenš?ina Svenska ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 6 July 2020, at 20:02. Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Privacy policy About Wikiversity Disclaimers Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement