Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Main Page From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Welcome to Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia that anyone can edit. 6,416,025 articles in English The arts Biography Geography History Mathematics Science Society Technology All portals From today's featured article The Cleveland Centennial half dollar is a commemorative United States half dollar, dated 1936, issued to mark the 100th anniversary of Cleveland, Ohio, as an incorporated city, and in commemoration of the Great Lakes Exposition, held in Cleveland that year. In the mid-1930s, commemorative coins were increasing in value, and Cincinnati businessman Thomas G. Melish, a coin collector, lobbied Congress to authorize several new issues, for which he would be the sole distributor. He was successful with the Cincinnati Musical Center half dollar and the Cleveland piece, and profited from both. Brenda Putnam designed the Cleveland coin, which was approved by the Commission of Fine Arts after suggestions by sculptor Lee Lawrie. Melish distributed the Cleveland coins through the exposition, at local banks, and by mail order from his office in Cincinnati. Sales were good, and the full authorized mintage of 50,000 was struck at the Philadelphia Mint. (Full article...) Recently featured: John McGraw Jaguar British logistics in the Falklands War Archive By email More featured articles Did you know ... Thromidia catalai ... that the starfish Thromidia catalai (pictured) can weigh as much as 6 kilograms (13 lb)? ... that the first exhibit of the West Virginia Music Hall of Fame came from founder Michael Lipton's record collection? ... that the senior Burmese princes could not attend the funeral of King Mindon since they had all been arrested? ... that in 1958, New Jersey assemblyman Carmine Savino proposed cutting property taxes in half by imposing a three-percent state sales tax that would be used to cover public school costs? ... that the Greenlandic novel Homo Sapienne was written in only one month? ... that when the Marquis Theatre was completed, some Broadway performers boycotted it because of a controversy over the construction of the hotel above it? ... that magma travelling through dykes usually solidifies before it gets to the Earth's surface? ... that Jonathan Weiner explains in his book how Time, Love, [and] Memory became associated with specific fly genes? Archive Start a new article Nominate an article In the news Magdalena Andersson Magdalena Andersson (pictured), who resigned a week earlier after one day as designate, is re-elected as Prime Minister of Sweden. Barbados becomes a republic, with Sandra Mason replacing Queen Elizabeth II as the head of state. In baseball, the Tokyo Yakult Swallows defeat the Orix Buffaloes to win the Japan Series. American musical theatre composer and lyricist Stephen Sondheim dies at the age of 91. Ongoing: COVID-19 pandemic Recent deaths: Ray Kennedy Aron Atabek Hermann Bausinger Norodom Ranariddh Virgil Abloh M?rti?š Brauns Nominate an article On this day December 1: World AIDS Day; Great Union Day in Romania (1918) Francis Walsingham 1577 – Francis Walsingham (pictured), Elizabeth I of England's principal secretary and spymaster, was knighted. 1821 – On the island of Hispaniola, General José Núñez de Cáceres established the Republic of Spanish Haiti, which only lasted three months. 1941 – The Civil Air Patrol, the civilian auxiliary of the United States Air Force, was founded. 1971 – A period of political and economic reforms known as the Croatian Spring came to an end as the League of Communists of Yugoslavia decided to purge the reformist leadership of Croatia. 1991 – More than 92 percent of voters approved the independence of Ukraine as declared on 24 August. Archie MacLaren (b. 1871) Zhu De (b. 1886) Anna Roosevelt Halsted (d. 1975) More anniversaries: November 30 December 1 December 2 Archive By email List of days of the year Today's featured picture The northern royal albatross (Diomedea sanfordi) is a large seabird in the albatross family, Diomedeidae. It nests only on the Chatham Islands, on Enderby Island, and at Taiaroa Head on the Otago Peninsula of New Zealand. It spends the rest of the year away from land, in circumpolar flights over the Southern Ocean, feeding on squid, fish, crustaceans, salps and carrion. The species is listed on the IUCN Red List as endangered, but predators have been eliminated from the islands where it breeds, and conservation efforts have proved successful at the Taiaroa Head colony. This northern royal albatross was photographed off the southeastern coast of Tasmania, Australia. Photograph credit: John Harrison Recently featured: Henry Taube Walchensee Hydroelectric Power Station A Meeting in the Royal Danish Academy of Sciences and Letters Archive More featured pictures Other areas of Wikipedia Community portal – Bulletin board, projects, resources and activities covering a wide range of Wikipedia areas. Help desk – Ask questions about using Wikipedia. Reference desk – Serving as virtual librarians, Wikipedia volunteers tackle your questions on a wide range of subjects. Site news – Announcements, updates, articles and press releases on Wikipedia and the Wikimedia Foundation. Teahouse – To ask your first basic questions about contributing to Wikipedia. Village pump – For discussions about Wikipedia itself, including areas for technical issues and policies. Wikipedia's sister projects Wikipedia is hosted by the Wikimedia Foundation, a non-profit organization that also hosts a range of other projects: Commons Free media repository MediaWiki Wiki software development Meta-Wiki Wikimedia project coordination Wikibooks Free textbooks and manuals Wikidata Free knowledge base Wikinews Free-content news Wikiquote Collection of quotations Wikisource Free-content library Wikispecies Directory of species Wikiversity Free learning tools Wikivoyage Free travel guide Wiktionary Dictionary and thesaurus Wikipedia languages This Wikipedia is written in English. Many other Wikipedias are available; some of the largest are listed below. 1,000,000+ articles ??????? Deutsch Español Français Italiano Nederlands ??? Polski Português ??????? Svenska ?????????? Ti?ng Vi?t ?? 250,000+ articles Bahasa Indonesia Bahasa Melayu Bân-lâm-gú ????????? Català ?eština Dansk Esperanto Euskara ?????? ????? ??? Magyar Norsk Bokmål Român? Srpski Srpskohrvatski Suomi Türkçe 50,000+ articles Asturianu Bosanski Eesti ???????? Simple English Galego Hrvatski Latviešu Lietuvi? ?????? ?????????? Norsk nynorsk Shqip Sloven?ina Slovenš?ina ??? Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Main_Page&oldid=1004593520" Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Main Page Talk Variants expanded collapsed Views Read View source View history More expanded collapsed Search Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons MediaWiki Meta-Wiki Multilingual Wikisource Wikispecies Wikibooks Wikidata Wikimania Wikinews Wikiquote Wikisource Wikiversity Wikivoyage Wiktionary Languages ??????? ????? ????????? Bosanski Català ?eština Dansk Deutsch Eesti ???????? Español Esperanto Euskara ????? Français Galego ??? Hrvatski Bahasa Indonesia Italiano ????? ??????? Latviešu Lietuvi? Magyar ?????????? Bahasa Melayu Nederlands ??? Norsk bokmål Norsk nynorsk Polski Português Român? ??????? Simple English Sloven?ina Slovenš?ina ?????? / srpski Srpskohrvatski / ?????????????? Suomi Svenska ??? Türkçe ?????????? Ti?ng Vi?t ?? This page was last edited on 3 February 2021, at 11:11 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement