Senior Software Engineer (Frontend) at Deepfield Networks - Stack Overflow
Senior Software Engineer (Frontend) at Deepfield Networks  - Stack Overflow Stack Overflow About Products For Teams Stack Overflow Public questions & answers Stack Overflow for Teams Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers Jobs Programming & related technical career opportunities Talent Recruit tech talent & build your employer brand Advertising Reach developers & technologists worldwide About the company Loading… Log in Sign up current community Stack Overflow help chat Meta Stack Overflow your communities Sign up or log in to customize your list. more stack exchange communities company blog Home Public Questions Tags Users Collectives Explore Collectives Find a Job Jobs Companies Teams Stack Overflow for Teams – Collaborate and share knowledge with a private group. Create a free Team What is Teams? Teams Create free Team Collectives on Stack Overflow Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most. Learn more Teams Q&A for work Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search. Learn more Jobs Companies Why Jobs? Applications Developer Story You’ve submitted an application. View all your job applications in one central place. Senior Software Engineer (Frontend) Deepfield Networks – Ann Arbor, MI Paid relocation Save Save Share via email Share via Twitter Share via Facebook Report Dismiss Overview Company Developer Culture React to this job: 8 0 2 Posted 3 days ago About this job Job type: Full-time Experience level: Mid-Level, Senior Role: Frontend Developer Industry: Data & Analytics, Network Engineering, Network Security Company size: 51-200 people Company type: Public Technologies pythonjavascriptreactjsjqueryless Job description Who We Are Nokia is a global leader in the technologies that connect people and things. With state-of-the-art software, hardware and services for any type of network, Nokia is uniquely positioned to help communication service providers, governments, and large enterprises deliver on the promise of 5G, the Cloud and the Internet of Things. Serving customers in over 100 countries, our research scientists and engineers continue to invent and accelerate new technologies that will increasingly transform the way people and things communicate and connect. Deepfield is a Nokia owned company that builds the analytic and security solutions that monitor and defend over 90% of internet backbone networks. We produce cutting-edge research at the intersection of data science, visualization, and network analytics, and we create, deploy, and maintain the largest global network analytics platform. Come join us and help advance state-of-the-art network intelligence. What We Do At Deepfield, a Nokia owned company, our customers are the internet - from content providers to global network operators. There's no shortage of data in these environments; the challenge is to turn that data into actionable information for everything from strategic business decisions to automated network operation. The biggest players in the industry are turning to Deepfield for answers. While one of the key aspects of our product is the data, the way that data is presented and the workflows we provide play a big role in the ability of our customers to take action. That’s where you come in. You’ll work on a small team helping to create and bring to life the vision that we have for big data. With your strong passion for user experience, we can help alleviate and clarify the information challenges large amounts of data provide. Our ideal candidate is a frontend developer who has at least three years of experience writing production-ready code for web products. We’re looking for someone who can take an idea and run with it, turning it into something useful and beautiful. Job Duties Write clean, modern, scalable, and maintainable code for our web application Mentor junior engineers Participate in code reviews Contribute to architecture/design discussions Help lead and scale our engineering organization Qualifications Skill set requirements Strong Javascript skills including experience in multiple frameworks Web programming and knowledge of browser standards Git, docker, and other Unix command tools Experiencing consuming/using RESTful APIs Thriving in a fast-paced, quickly evolving, tech start-up environment Contributing to a collaborative, dynamic, and diverse team Additional Assets Experience leading a team or mentoring other engineers Experience with Python or C Experience maintaining a single website or product for more than one year Familiarity with D3, Highcharts, or other charting packages Experience writing automated tests (e.g. unit or integration tests) Familiarity with ES6 (ECMAscript 2015) Perks The excitement of having immediate impact across a global customer base and some of the most important internet companies A group of people that enjoys hanging out together! We have frequent company events such as demos, tech talk, outings...oh, and did we mention food? The opportunity to apply state-of-the-art technologies to solve interesting and challenging problems Innovative teammates with diverse interests and hobbies A relaxed, flexible, and fun environment located in the heart of downtown Ann Arbor stocked with plenty of snacks and sunlight About the company Deepfield Networks Recently acquired by Nokia Follow your favorite companies By selecting follow, you are opting in to receive an email digest from the companies you follow. Don't worry, your information isn't shared. Follow Follow your favorite companies By selecting follow, you are opting in to receive an email digest from the companies you follow. Don't worry, your information isn't shared. Follow Nokia’s Deepfield solution is a scalable software platform that ingests data from the network, the enterprise, and the cloud so it can be sliced and diced in real time, allowing IP and webscale companies to pinpoint and resolve service and security issues in real time. By un-siloing network and enterprise data, it allows for real time correlation. The key here though, is a continuously updating map of the global internet—Cloud Genome. This patented data feed creates a ‘caller ID’ that maps all IP flows to their source and destination, unraveling their service supply chain and uncovering the content of IP flows without looking into the packet. When this cloud topology is overlayed onto the network, it allows operators to see exactly where OTT service issues exist (even if the traffic is encrypted) so they can make better choices on where to add capacity or caches, saving CAPEX. This visibility also means that operators can see the source of DDoS attack traffic so it can be mitigated immediately without investing more in mitigation appliances. Benefits Competitive Salary 22 PTO Days, 7 Paid Holidays, and Unlimited Sick Time The Tools You Need A Beautiful Office in Downtown Ann Arbor Health and Medical Benefits Joel Test Source control One-step build Daily builds Bug database Bugs fixed before writing new code Up-to-date schedule Specs Quiet working conditions Best tools that money can buy Testers Code screening Hallway usability testing Learn more about Deepfield Networks Want to get notified about new jobs at Deepfield Networks? Create a company alert Your job search status has been updated. Are you looking for a job? When you create a Developer Story, we’ll accelerate your matches and get you in front of employers ASAP. Create a Developer Story Senior Software Engineer (Frontend) at Deepfield Networks Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Help Mobile Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Service Contact Us Cookie Settings Cookie Policy Stack Exchange Network Technology Culture & recreation Life & arts Science Professional Business API Data Blog Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram site design / logo © 2021 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa. rev 2021.11.30.40849 Stack Overflow works best with JavaScript enabled Your privacy By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy. Accept all cookies Customize settings