Portal:Biography - Wikipedia
Portal:Biography - Wikipedia Portal:Biography From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Portal maintenance status: (June 2018) This portal's subpages have been checked by an editor, and are needed. Please take care when editing, especially if using automated editing software. Learn how to update the maintenance information here. Wikipedia portal for content related to Biography Portal topics Activities Culture Geography Health History Mathematics Nature People Philosophy Religion Society Technology Random portal The Biography Portal Cultural icon A biography, or simply bio, is a detailed description of a person's life. It involves more than just the basic facts like education, work, relationships, and death; it portrays a person's experience of these life events. Unlike a profile or curriculum vitae (résumé), a biography presents a subject's life story, highlighting various aspects of their life, including intimate details of experience, and may include an analysis of the subject's personality. Biographical works are usually non-fiction, but fiction can also be used to portray a person's life. One in-depth form of biographical coverage is called legacy writing. Works in diverse media, from literature to film, form the genre known as biography. An authorized biography is written with the permission, cooperation, and at times, participation of a subject or a subject's heirs. An autobiography is written by the person themselves, sometimes with the assistance of a collaborator or ghostwriter. (Full article...) Refresh with new selections below (purge) Featured biographies – load new batch Featured articles are displayed here, which represent some of the best content on English Wikipedia. Image 1 Collingwood in 2019 Paul David Collingwood MBE (born 26 May 1976) is a former English cricketer, having played all three formats of the game internationally for England. Collingwood played for Durham County Cricket Club and was the 2010 ICC World Twenty20 winning captain. He was a regular member of the England Test side and captain of the One Day International (ODI) team (2007–2008). He is the first T20I cap for England. He captained his county club, Durham County Cricket Club, for the final six seasons of his career. Collingwood was a batting all-rounder, whose batting combined natural strokeplay with great tenacity. He also bowled reliable medium pace. Described as a "natural athlete", he was also regarded as one of the finest fielders of his time, usually fielding at backward point or 3rd or 4th slips in tests, he also deputised as wicket-keeper for England. (Full article...) Image 2 Arthur Lewis Watkins Sifton, PC (UK), PC (Can), KC (October 26, 1858 – January 21, 1921), was a Canadian politician who served as the second premier of Alberta from 1910 until 1917. He became a minister in the federal cabinet of Canada thereafter. Born in Canada West (now Ontario), he grew up there and in Winnipeg, where he became a lawyer. He subsequently practised law with his brother Clifford Sifton in Brandon, where he was also active in municipal politics. He moved west to Prince Albert in 1885 and to Calgary in 1889. There, he was elected to the 4th and 5th North-West Legislative Assemblies; he served as a minister in the government of premier Frederick Haultain. In 1903, the federal government, at the instigation of his brother (who was then one of its ministers), made Sifton the Chief Justice of the Northwest Territories. After Alberta was created out of a portion of the Northwest Territories in 1905, Sifton became the first Chief Justice of Alberta in 1907 and served until 1910. In 1910, the Liberal government of Alberta premier Alexander Cameron Rutherford was embroiled in the Alberta and Great Waterways Railway scandal. The Lieutenant Governor of Alberta, George Bulyea, was a Liberal and determined that for the sake of the Alberta Liberal Party, Rutherford had to be pushed aside in favour of a new premier. When other prominent Liberals declined it, the position was offered to Sifton, who accepted it. As premier, Sifton smoothed over the divisions in the party that had caused and been exacerbated by the railway scandal. He made attempts to break with the Rutherford railway policy; when these were rebuffed by the courts, he adopted a course similar to Rutherford's. He unsuccessfully pursued the transfer of rights over Alberta's natural resources from the federal government, which had retained them by the terms of Alberta's provincehood. (Full article...) Image 3 Ruth Elizabeth "Bazy" Tankersley (March 7, 1921 – February 5, 2013) was an American breeder of Arabian horses and a newspaper publisher. She was a daughter of U.S. Senator Joseph Medill McCormick. Her mother was progressive Republican U.S. Representative Ruth Hanna McCormick, making Tankersley a granddaughter of the Senator Mark Hanna of Ohio. Although Tankersley was involved with conservative Republican causes as a young woman, including a friendship with Senator Joseph McCarthy, her progressive roots reemerged in later years; by the 21st century, she had become a strong supporter of environmental causes and backed Barack Obama for president in 2008. Tankersley's father died when she was a child. When her mother remarried, the family moved to the southwestern United States where Tankersley spent considerable time riding horses. She became particularly enamored of the Arabian breed after she was given a part-Arabian to ride. At 18 she began working as a reporter for a newspaper published by her mother. She later ran a newspaper in Illinois with her first husband, Peter Miller, and then in 1949 she became the publisher of the conservative Washington Times-Herald. That paper was owned by her uncle, the childless Robert McCormick, who viewed Tankersley as his heir until the two had a falling out over editorial control of the newspaper and her relationship with Garvin Tankersley, who became her second husband. After The Washington Post absorbed the Times-Herald, she shifted to full-time horse breeding. (Full article...) Image 4 Bowie in 2002 David Robert Jones OAL (8 January 1947 – 10 January 2016), known professionally as David Bowie (/?bo?i/ BOH-ee), was an English singer-songwriter and actor. A leading figure in the music industry, Bowie is regarded as one of the most influential musicians of the 20th century. He was acclaimed by critics and musicians, particularly for his innovative work during the 1970s. His career was marked by reinvention and visual presentation, and his music and stagecraft had a significant impact on popular music. Bowie developed an interest in music as a child. He studied art, music and design before embarking on a professional career as a musician in 1963. "Space Oddity", released in 1969, was his first top-five entry on the UK Singles Chart. After a period of experimentation, he re-emerged in 1972 during the glam rock era with his flamboyant and androgynous alter ego Ziggy Stardust. The character was spearheaded by the success of Bowie's single "Starman" and album The Rise and Fall of Ziggy Stardust and the Spiders from Mars, which won him widespread popularity. In 1975, Bowie's style shifted towards a sound he characterised as "plastic soul", initially alienating many of his UK fans but garnering him his first major US crossover success with the number-one single "Fame" and the album Young Americans. In 1976, Bowie starred in the cult film The Man Who Fell to Earth, directed by Nicolas Roeg, and released Station to Station. In 1977, he further confounded expectations with the electronic-inflected album Low, the first of three collaborations with Brian Eno that came to be known as the "Berlin Trilogy". "Heroes" (1977) and Lodger (1979) followed; each album reached the UK top five and received lasting critical praise. (Full article...) Image 5 Wing Commander John Balmer, September 1942 John Raeburn Balmer, OBE, DFC (3 July 1910 – 11 May 1944) was a senior officer and bomber pilot in the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF). Born in Bendigo, Victoria, he studied law before joining the RAAF as an air cadet in 1932. An instructor at Point Cook from 1935 to 1937, he achieved renown in Air Force circles when he reportedly parachuted from a training aircraft to motivate his pupil to land single-handedly. He also became known to the general public as a cross-country motorist, setting records for trans-Australia and round-Australia trips prior to World War II. A flight lieutenant when war broke out, Balmer was promoted to squadron leader in June 1940, becoming the inaugural commanding officer of No. 13 Squadron, which operated Lockheed Hudsons out of Darwin, Northern Territory. He was raised to temporary wing commander in April 1941, and within a year had taken charge of the RAAF's first Bristol Beaufort unit, No. 100 Squadron. Appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire in June 1942, he led the Beauforts on bombing and torpedo missions against Japanese targets in the New Guinea campaign. (Full article...) Image 6 John de Gray or de Grey (died 18 October 1214) was an English prelate who served as Bishop of Norwich, and was elected but unconfirmed Archbishop of Canterbury. He was employed in the service of Prince John even before John became king, for which he was rewarded with a number of ecclesiastical offices, culminating in his pro forma election to Norwich in 1200. De Gray continued in royal service after his elevation to the episcopate, lending the King money and undertaking diplomatic missions on his behalf. In 1205 King John attempted to further reward de Gray with a translation to the archbishopric of Canterbury, but a disputed election process led to de Gray's selection being quashed by Pope Innocent III in 1206. Innocent consecrated Stephen Langton as archbishop against John's wishes, triggering a long dispute between the papacy and the King. The pope imposed various sanctions on England and John; at one point de Gray was one of only two bishops still legitimately holding office in England. In 1209 he became governor of Ireland for John, and spent until 1213 attempting to impose royal government on the Anglo-Norman barons and the native Irish in that country. Recalled to England to help defend against a threatened invasion by the French, de Gray then travelled to Rome to secure a papal pardon after the final settlement of John and Innocent's dispute over the bishop's abortive elevation to Canterbury. After securing his pardon de Gray was appointed Bishop of Durham, but he died on his way back to England. (Full article...) Image 7 Sir Michael Kemp Tippett OM CH CBE (2 January 1905 – 8 January 1998) was an English composer who rose to prominence during and immediately after the Second World War. In his lifetime he was sometimes ranked with his contemporary Benjamin Britten as one of the leading British composers of the 20th century. Among his best-known works are the oratorio A Child of Our Time, the orchestral Fantasia Concertante on a Theme of Corelli, and the opera The Midsummer Marriage. Tippett's talent developed slowly. He withdrew or destroyed his earliest compositions, and was 30 before any of his works were published. Until the mid-to-late 1950s his music was broadly lyrical in character, before changing to a more astringent and experimental style. New influences, including those of jazz and blues after his first visit to America in 1965, became increasingly evident in his compositions. While Tippett's stature with the public continued to grow, not all critics approved of these changes in style, some believing that the quality of his work suffered as a consequence. From around 1976 Tippett's late works began to reflect the works of his youth through a return to lyricism. Although he was much honoured in his lifetime, critical judgement on Tippett's legacy has been uneven, the greatest praise being generally reserved for his earlier works. His centenary in 2005 was a muted affair; apart from the few best-known works, his music has been performed infrequently in the 21st century. (Full article...) Image 8 King Ine depicted in the Transfiguration Window of Wells Cathedral. Ine, also rendered Ini or Ina, (Latin: Inus; c. AD 670 – after 726) was King of Wessex from 689 to 726. At Ine's accession, his kingdom dominated much of southern England. However, he was unable to retain the territorial gains of his predecessor, Cædwalla, who had expanded West Saxon territory substantially. By the end of Ine's reign, the kingdoms of Kent, Sussex, and Essex were no longer under West Saxon sway; however, Ine maintained control of what is now Hampshire, and consolidated and extended Wessex's territory in the western peninsula. Ine is noted for his code of laws (leges Inae or "laws of Ine"), which he issued in about 694. These laws were the first issued by an Anglo-Saxon king outside Kent. They shed much light on the history of Anglo-Saxon society, and reveal Ine's Christian convictions. Trade increased significantly during Ine's reign, with the town of Hamwic (now Southampton) becoming prominent. It was probably during Ine's reign that the West Saxons began to mint coins, though none have been found that bear his name. (Full article...) Image 9 Official RAAF portrait of Air Marshal Sir Alister Murdoch Air Marshal Sir Alister Murray Murdoch, KBE, CB (9 December 1912 – 29 November 1984) was a senior commander in the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF). He served as Chief of the Air Staff (CAS) from 1965 to 1969. Joining the Air Force in 1930, Murdoch trained as a seaplane pilot and participated in an Antarctic rescue mission for lost explorers in 1935. During World War II, he commanded No. 221 Squadron RAF in Europe and the Middle East, and later occupied senior positions on the staff of RAAF formations in the South West Pacific. His post-war appointments included Commandant of RAAF College from 1952 to 1953, Air Officer Commanding (AOC) Training Command from 1953 to 1955, Deputy Chief of the Air Staff from 1958 to 1959, and AOC Operational Command from 1962 to 1965. As AOC Training Command in 1954, Murdoch headed a program to determine aircraft purchases for the RAAF; his recommendations included the C-130 Hercules transport, considered one of the most important acquisitions in the Air Force's history. His term as CAS coincided with an increased commitment to the Vietnam War, and he came into conflict with Australian Army commanders over the employment of helicopters in battle. He was also involved in assessing the readiness of the General Dynamics F-111C for RAAF service. Appointed a Companion of the Order of the Bath in 1960 and Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire in 1966, Murdoch was the fourth in a series of CASs who had been cadets at the Royal Military College, Duntroon. He retired from the Air Force in December 1969 and died in 1984. (Full article...) Image 10 The scene of the murder, the Red Barn, so called because of its half red clay-tiled roof, which can be seen to the left of the main door in this sketch. The rest of the roof was thatched. The Red Barn Murder was a notorious 1827 murder committed in Polstead, Suffolk, England, in which a young woman, Maria Marten, was shot dead by her lover, William Corder. The two had arranged to meet at the Red Barn, a local landmark, before eloping to Ipswich. Marten was never seen alive again and Corder fled the scene. He sent letters to Marten's family claiming that she was in good health, but her body was later discovered buried in the barn after her stepmother spoke of having dreamed about the murder. Corder was tracked down in London, where he had married and started a new life. He was brought back to Suffolk and found guilty of murder in a well-publicised trial. In 1828, Corder was hanged at Bury St Edmunds in an execution witnessed by a huge crowd. The story provoked numerous newspaper articles, songs and plays. The village where the crime had taken place became a tourist attraction and the barn was stripped by souvenir hunters. The plays, ballads and songs remained popular throughout the next century and continue to be performed today. (Full article...) Image 11 Davies in 2008 Stephen Russell Davies OBE (born 27 April 1963), better known as Russell T Davies, is a Welsh screenwriter and television producer whose works include Queer as Folk, The Second Coming, Casanova, the 2005 revival of the BBC One science fiction franchise Doctor Who, Cucumber, Years and Years and It's a Sin. Born in Swansea, Davies had aspirations as a comic artist before focusing on being a playwright and screenwriter. After graduating from Oxford University, he joined the BBC's children's department, CBBC, in 1985 on a part-time basis and held various positions, which included creating two series, Dark Season and Century Falls. He eventually left the BBC for Granada Television, and in 1994 began writing adult television drama. His early scripts generally explored concepts of religion and sexuality among various backdrops: Revelations was a soap opera about organised religion and featured a lesbian vicar; Springhill was a soap drama about a Catholic family in contemporary Liverpool; The Grand explored society's opinion of subjects such as prostitution, abortion and homosexuality during the interwar period; and Queer as Folk recreated his experiences in the Manchester gay scene. His work in the 2000s included Bob & Rose, which portrayed a gay man who fell in love with a woman; The Second Coming, which focused on the second coming and deicide of Jesus Christ from a mostly non-religious point of view; Mine All Mine, a comedy about a family who discover they own the entire city of Swansea; and Casanova, an adaptation of the complete memoirs of Venetian adventurer Giacomo Casanova. (Full article...) Image 12 Photograph by W. & D. Downey, c.?1889 Alexandra of Denmark (Alexandra Caroline Marie Charlotte Louise Julia; 1 December 1844 – 20 November 1925) was Queen of the United Kingdom and the British Dominions and Empress of India from 22 January 1901 to 6 May 1910 as the wife of King-Emperor Edward VII. Alexandra's family had been relatively obscure until 1852, when her father, Prince Christian of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Glücksburg, was chosen with the consent of the major European powers to succeed his second cousin Frederick VII as king of Denmark. At the age of sixteen Alexandra was chosen as the future wife of Albert Edward, Prince of Wales, the heir apparent of Queen Victoria. The couple married eighteen months later in 1863, the year in which her father became king of Denmark as Christian IX and her brother was appointed king of Greece as George I. She was Princess of Wales from 1863 to 1901, the longest anyone has ever held that title, and became generally popular; her style of dress and bearing were copied by fashion-conscious women. Largely excluded from wielding any political power, she unsuccessfully attempted to sway the opinion of British ministers and her husband's family to favour Greek and Danish interests. Her public duties were restricted to uncontroversial involvement in charitable work. (Full article...) Image 13 Ely Cathedral William de Longchamp (died 1197) was a medieval Lord Chancellor, Chief Justiciar, and Bishop of Ely in England. Born to a humble family in Normandy, he owed his advancement to royal favour. Although contemporary writers accused Longchamp's father of being the son of a peasant, he held land as a knight. Longchamp first served Henry II's illegitimate son Geoffrey, but quickly transferred to the service of Richard I, Henry's heir. When Richard became king in 1189, Longchamp paid £3,000 for the office of Chancellor, and was soon named to the see, or bishopric, of Ely and appointed legate by the pope. Longchamp governed England while Richard was on the Third Crusade, but his authority was challenged by Richard's brother, John, who eventually succeeded in driving Longchamp from power and from England. Longchamp's relations with the other leading English nobles were also strained, which contributed to the demands for his exile. Soon after Longchamp's departure from England, Richard was captured on his journey back to England from the crusade and held for ransom by Henry VI, Holy Roman Emperor. Longchamp travelled to Germany to help negotiate Richard's release. Although Longchamp regained the office of Chancellor after Richard's return to England, he lost much of his former power. He aroused a great deal of hostility among his contemporaries during his career, but he retained Richard's trust and was employed by the king until the bishop's death in 1197. Longchamp wrote a treatise on the law, which remained well known throughout the later Middle Ages. (Full article...) Image 14 Bernhard Carl "Bert" Trautmann EK OBE BVO (22 October 1923 – 19 July 2013) was a German professional footballer who played as a goalkeeper for Manchester City from 1949 to 1964. In August 1933, he joined the Jungvolk, the junior section of the Hitler Youth. Trautmann joined the Luftwaffe early in the Second World War, and then served as a paratrooper. He was initially sent to Occupied Poland, and subsequently fought on the Eastern Front for three years, earning five medals, including an Iron Cross. Later in the war, he was transferred to the Western Front, where he was captured by the British as the war drew to a close. As a volunteer soldier, he was classified a category "C" prisoner by the authorities, meaning he was regarded as a Nazi. One of only 90 of his original 1,000-man regiment to survive the war, he was transferred to a prisoner-of-war camp in Ashton-in-Makerfield, Lancashire. Trautmann refused an offer of repatriation, and following his release in 1948 decided to settle in Lancashire, combining farm work with playing goalkeeper for a local football team, St Helens Town. (Full article...) Image 15 Air Vice Marshal McCauley as AOC Eastern Area, 1953 Air Marshal Sir John Patrick Joseph McCauley, KBE, CB (18 March 1899 – 3 February 1989) was a senior commander in the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF). He served as Chief of the Air Staff from 1954 to 1957. A Duntroon graduate, McCauley spent four years in the Australian Military Forces before transferring to the RAAF in 1924. He was Director of Training from 1936 to 1938, and commanded engineering and flying training schools for the first eighteen months of World War II. Having been promoted to group captain in 1940, he was posted to Singapore in June 1941 to take charge of all RAAF units defending the area. He earned praise for his efforts in attacking invading Japanese forces before the fall of Singapore, and for his dedication in evacuating his men. After serving as Deputy Chief of the Air Staff in 1942–44, he was appointed to a senior operational role with the Royal Air Force's 2nd Tactical Air Force in Europe, where he saw out the rest of the war. Following the end of hostilities, McCauley again became Deputy Chief of the Air Staff. In 1947 he was promoted to air vice marshal and appointed Chief of Staff at British Commonwealth Occupation Force Headquarters in Japan. Returning to Australia in June 1949, he served as the last Air Officer Commanding (AOC) Eastern Area and the inaugural AOC Home Command (now Air Command). Raised to air marshal, he took up the position of Chief of the Air Staff in January 1954, and was knighted a year later. During his tenure in the RAAF's senior role, McCauley focused on potential deployments to Southeast Asia—particularly Vietnam—and threats from the north, commencing redevelopment of RAAF Base Darwin and recommending purchase of a light supersonic bomber to replace the Air Force's English Electric Canberra. After retiring from military life in March 1957, he chaired various community and welfare organisations, serving as Federal President of the Air Force Association for ten years. He died in Sydney in 1989, aged 89. (Full article...) More featured articles Did you know... - show different entries ... that artist and illustrator Rune Naito, credited with pioneering the culture and aesthetic of kawaii, also contributed erotic illustrations to the gay men's magazine Barazoku? ... that Swedish actor Christopher Wollter started his career as a teenage reporter for the SVT children's television show Barnjournalen? ... that in Botswana, writer Unity Dow took legal actions as a plaintiff, legal counsellor, and judge to challenge gender discrimination and protect indigenous rights, before becoming a legislator? ... that before becoming an electrical engineer and factory inspector, Marjorie Bell shovelled coal at a gas works? ... that when Ruth Stokes defended her dissertation on the theory of linear programming in 1931, she became the first person to earn a doctorate in mathematics from Duke University? ... that computer scientist Sheree Atcheson has been recognised by Computer Weekly as one of the "most influential women in UK tech"? ... that Senegalese artist and actress Younousse Sèye, who is best known for her mixed-media works incorporating cowrie shells, is considered to be Senegal's first woman painter? ... that Turkish accordion-playing street musician Madam Anahit also appeared in a number of films as an extra? ... that Swedish writer Annie Åkerhielm was an active campaigner against women's suffrage and democracy? ... that Japanese manga artist Riyoko Ikeda was awarded the Legion of Honour by the French government for her manga series The Rose of Versailles? ... that Eugene C. Barker was involved in the "biggest bear fight" in Texas history with Governor James E. Ferguson, but Barker kept his job and Ferguson was later impeached? ... that "Oye Mujer", a song certified 14× Multi-Platinum (Latin) in the US, was composed by Mexican musician Raymix while he was participating in a NASA educative internship? General images The following are images from various biography-related articles on Wikipedia. Image 1Cover of the first English edition of Benjamin Franklin's autobiography, 1793 (from Autobiography) Image 2Saint Augustine of Hippo wrote Confessions, the first Western autobiography ever written, around 400. Portrait by Philippe de Champaigne, 17th century. (from Autobiography) Image 3Eminent Victorians set the standard for 20th century biographical writing, when it was published in 1918. (from Biography) Image 4Einhard as scribe (from Biography) Image 5A scene from the Baburnama (from Autobiography) Image 6John Foxe's The Book of Martyrs, was one of the earliest English-language biographies. (from Biography) Image 7James Boswell wrote what many consider to be the first modern biography, The Life of Samuel Johnson, in 1791. (from Biography) Image 8Third Volume of a 1727 edition of Plutarch's Lives of the Noble Greeks and Romans printed by Jacob Tonson (from Biography) Need help? Do you have a question about Wikipedia biographical content that you can't find the answer to? Consider asking it at the Wikipedia reference desk. Get involved For editor resources and to collaborate with other editors on improving Wikipedia's Biography-related articles, see WikiProject Biography. Selected portrait Image 1 Buster KeatonPhoto credit: Bain News Service Along with Charlie Chaplin and Harold Lloyd, Buster Keaton was one of the most important comic actors of the silent era. His trademark was physical comedy with a stoic, deadpan expression on his face, earning him the nickname "The Great Stone Face". He appeared in dozens of films, and his The General was voted the fifteenth-best film of all time by Sight & Sound readers. Entertainment Weekly also named him the seventh-greatest film director in history. More selected portraits Image 2 Vincent van GoghPainting credit: John Russell Vincent van Gogh is an oil-on-canvas portrait by Australian painter John Russell, dated 1886. It depicts Dutch artist Vincent van Gogh, who became lifelong friends with Russell after meeting him at Fernand Cormon's atelier in Paris, which they both attended. Painted in a realist and academic manner, the portrait shows hints of the impressionist techniques with which they began experimenting in the latter half of the 1880s. It is the earliest of three portraits painted of Van Gogh by his contemporaries, the other two being Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec's Portrait of Vincent van Gogh (1887) and Paul Gauguin's The Painter of Sunflowers (1888). Van Gogh seems to have been particularly attached to Russell's portrait, which Russell gifted to him as a mark of their friendship. The painting passed from Van Gogh to his brother Theo and then to their family; it is now in the collection of the Van Gogh Museum in Amsterdam. More selected portraits Image 3 Portrait of Cardinal Niccolò AlbergatiArtwork credit: Jan van Eyck The Portrait of Cardinal Niccolò Albergati is an oil-on-oak-panel painting by the Early Netherlandish painter Jan van Eyck, dating to the 1430s. It is of considerable interest to art historians because van Eyck's preliminary drawing survives. The work depicts Niccolò Albergati, an Italian cardinal and a diplomat working under Pope Martin V, as a visibly ageing cleric, his face seamed with deep lines below the eyes; it is accompanied by notes on the colours to be used in the final painting. A comparison between this drawing and the portrait shows that van Eyck changed several details, such as the depth of the shoulders, the lower curve of the nose, the depth of the mouth and the size of the ear. The finished painting hangs at the Kunsthistorisches Museum, Vienna, while the drawing is in the collection of the Staatliche Kunstsammlungen Dresden. More selected portraits Image 4 Wayne GretzkyPhoto credit: Håkan Dahlström Ice hockey player Wayne Gretzky, as a member of the New York Rangers of the National Hockey League (NHL) in 1997. Gretzky, nicknamed "The Great One", is widely considered the best hockey player of all time. Upon his retirement in 1999, he held forty regular-season records, fifteen playoff records, and six All-Star records. He is the only NHL player to total over 200 points in one season—a feat he accomplished four times. In addition, he tallied over 100 points in 15 NHL seasons, 13 of them consecutively. He is the only player to have his number (99) officially retired by the NHL for all teams. More selected portraits Image 5 T206 Honus WagnerImage credit: American Tobacco Company The T206 Honus Wagner is a rare baseball card depicting Honus Wagner (February 24, 1874 – December 6, 1955), a dead-ball era shortstop considered one of the best players of all time. The card was designed and issued by the American Tobacco Company from 1909 to 1911. Only 50 to 200 cards were ever distributed to the public, and as a result of the card's rarity and popularity, prices have soared. In 2007, a collector paid $2.8 million for one, making it the most valuable baseball card in history. This specimen belongs to the National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum in Cooperstown, New York. More selected portraits Image 6 Célestine Galli-MariéPhotograph credit: Nadar; restored by Adam Cuerden Célestine Galli-Marié (1837–1905) was a French mezzo-soprano who is most famous for creating the title role in the opera Carmen by Georges Bizet. It was said that, during the opera's 33rd performance on 2 June 1875, Galli-Marié had a premonition of Bizet's death while singing in the third act, and fainted when she left the stage; the composer in fact died that night and the next performance was cancelled due to her indisposition. This photograph by Nadar depicts Galli-Marié as the titular character in Carmen. More selected portraits Image 7 Jeremy DoylePhoto: Sport the Library Jeremy Doyle (1983–2011) was an Australian wheelchair basketball player. Left paraplegic after a car accident, he was classified as a 1 point player. While representing his country Doyle won two gold medals, first at the 2009 Paralympic World Cup and again at the 2010 Wheelchair Basketball World Championship. More selected portraits Image 8 Queen Wilhelmina and Princess Juliana of the NetherlandsPhoto credit: Bain News Service Queen Wilhelmina of the Netherlands with her daughter and successor Princess Juliana, circa 1914. Wilhelmina was queen regnant from 1890 to 1948, longer than any other Dutch monarch. Outside the Netherlands she is primarily remembered for her role in the Second World War, in which she proved to be a great inspiration to the Dutch resistance, as well as a prominent leader of the Dutch government in exile. Juliana became queen regnant in 1948 after her mother's abdication and ruled until her own abdication in 1980, succeeded by her daughter, Beatrix. More selected portraits Image 9 Theodore Roosevelt and John MuirPhoto credit: Underwood and Underwood U.S. President Theodore Roosevelt (left) and nature preservationist John Muir, founder of the Sierra Club, stand together on Glacier Point in Yosemite National Park. In the background can be seen Upper and Lower Yosemite Falls. During this trip in 1903, Muir convinced Roosevelt to add Yosemite Valley and Mariposa Grove to the park, which had been established in 1890. More selected portraits Image 10 Alice ManfieldPhoto: Unknown; Restoration: John O'Neill Alice Manfield (1878–1960), commonly known as Guide Alice, was a mountain guide, amateur naturalist, chalet owner, photographer, and early feminist figure from Victoria, Australia. Her pioneering work at Mount Buffalo from the 1890s to the 1930s led to her becoming a tourist attraction in her own right, and helped lead to the establishment of the Mount Buffalo National Park. Manfield's parents ran a hotel at Mount Buffalo, and she led tours up the mountain from her youth. Because of her enthusiasm and extensive knowledge of the area, she quickly became a highly sought-after guide. She continued guiding tourists until the 1930s. More selected portraits Image 11 Maxim GorkyPhoto: Herman Mishkin; Restoration: Fallschirmjäger Maxim Gorky (1868–1936) was a Russian political activist and writer who helped establish the Socialist Realism literary method. This portrait dates from a trip Gorky made to the United States in 1906, on which he raised funds for the Bolsheviks. During this trip he wrote his novel The Mother. More selected portraits Image 12 Robin HunickePhoto: Charlie Chu Robin Hunicke (b. 1973) is an American video game designer and producer who worked for several companies before establishing her own, Funomena, in 2011. She also supports independent game development. More selected portraits Image 13 Agnes MilowkaPhoto: James Axford Agnes Milowka (1981–2011) was an Australian technical diver, underwater photographer, author, and cave explorer. She gained international recognition for extending cave systems across Australia and in Florida, and as a public speaker and author on the subjects of diving and maritime archaeology. She participated in National Geographic and Discovery Channel expeditions. Her passion led her to act as a stunt double on Andrew Wight's feature film Sanctum and to participate in shooting real scenery in Mount Gambier caves, where she drowned just a few weeks after the movie's premiere. More selected portraits Image 14 Alexz JohnsonPhoto: Epitome Pictures Alexz Johnson (b. 1986) is a Canadian singer-songwriter and actress, best known for roles as Jude Harrison in the CTV series Instant Star (character shown here), Annie Thelan in the Disney Channel series So Weird, and as Erin Ulmer in the 2006 horror film Final Destination 3. Her album Voodoo was released in 2010. More selected portraits Image 15 Sitting BullPhoto credit: D.F. Barry Sitting Bull was a Hunkpapa Lakota chief and holy man. He is notable in American and Native American history in large part for his major victory at the Battle of the Little Bighorn against Custer's 7th Cavalry, where his premonition of defeating them became reality. Even today, his name is synonymous with Native American culture, and he is considered to be one of the most famous Native Americans in history. Years later, he also participated in Buffalo Bill's Wild West show, where he frequently cursed audiences in his native tongue as they applauded him. More selected portraits edit On this day – December 1 Births 1521 – Takeda Shingen, Japanese warlord (d. 1573) 1580 – Nicolas-Claude Fabri de Peiresc, French astronomer (d. 1637) 1761 – Marie Tussaud, French sculptor and founder of Madame Tussauds (d. 1850) 1910 – Alicia Markova, English prima ballerina assoluta and choreographer (d. 2004) 1912 – Minoru Yamasaki, architect and designer of the World Trade Center (d. 1986) 1913 – Mary Martin, American actress and singer (d. 1990) (pictured) 1925 – Martin Rodbell, American chemist and Nobel Prize laureate (d. 1998) Deaths 1433 – Emperor Go-Komatsu, 100th Emperor of Japan (b. 1377) 1825 – Alexander I of Russia, Emperor of Russia and King of Poland (b. 1777) 1866 – George Everest, Welsh geographer and namesake of Mount Everest (b. 1790) 1973 – David Ben-Gurion, 1st Prime Minister of Israel (b. 1886) 1991 – George Stigler, American economist and Nobel Prize laureate (b. 1911) 2012 – Gerard Parker, Chief of the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians (b. 1936) More of today's anniversaries... In the news 25 November 2021 – 2021 Solomon Islands unrest Opposition leader Matthew Wale calls on the prime minister and his government to resign. (Solomon Times) 24 November 2021 – Two allies of Russian opposition leader and activist Alexei Navalny leave Russia, becoming the latest people to do so after many of Navalny's allies left the country in September. The two people are identified as a woman who helped Navalny represent his organization and a lawyer who said that he was under pressure. (Reuters) Sweden's Riksdag votes for Social Democrat leader Magdalena Andersson to become the first female prime minister of Sweden. However, Andersson resigned several hours later, after the Green Party quit the coalition. The Greens quit the coalition after the opposition budget was approved by the Riksdag. (Radio Sweden) (Reuters) 22 November 2021 – Aftermath of the 2021 Venezuelan regional elections Opposition leader Juan Guaidó calls for unity and to rebuild the opposition's fragmented strategy, after suffering a heavy loss at the regional elections and losing 20 gubernatorial races to the ruling United Socialist Party of Venezuela. (Reuters) 21 November 2021 – 2021 Chilean general election Far-right populist José Antonio Kast of the Republican Party and former student protest leader Gabriel Boric of the left-wing coalition Apruebo Dignidad qualify for the second round, after winning 27.94% and 25.75% of the vote respectively. The second round will take place on December 19. (Reuters) 21 November 2021 – Aftermath of the October 2021 Sudanese coup d'état Abdalla Hamdok is reinstated as Prime Minister of Sudan following a political agreement with coup leader Abdel Fattah al-Burhan. (BBC News) Updated: 21:33, 30 November 2021 edit Quote of the week "Blue Moon, now I'm no longer alone, without a dream in my heart, without a love of my own." — Lorenz Hart Blue Moon, 1934 Archive – More from Wikiquote edit Related portals Law Politics Literature Music Science Sports Military Religion Islam Christianity LGBT Hinduism Judaism Human sexuality Categories Select [?] to view subcategories Biography (genre) Biography awards Biographers Biography journals Biographical museums Oral history Person databases The Biography Channel shows Biographical works People People by association People by behavior People by event People by gender People by language People by medical or psychological condition People by nationality People by occupation People by organization People by location People by political orientation People by religion People by role People by sexuality People by status People by time Categories by individual People categories by type Lists of people Outlines of people Award winners Bibliographies of people Biography (genre) Classification of people Personal coats of arms Depictions of people Fictional characters Legendary people Metaphors referring to people Articles about multiple people Mythological people Twin people People stubs Wikipedia categories named after people edit Recognized content Featured articles 1937 tour of Germany by the Duke and Duchess of Windsor DJ AM Aaliyah Lazarus Aaronson Abd al-Malik ibn Marwan Abu Nidal Chinua Achebe Eliza Acton John Adair Amy Adams Doc Adams John Adams Samuel Adams Nick Adenhart Áedán mac Gabráin Ælfheah of Canterbury Ælle of Sussex Æthelbald of Mercia Æthelbald, King of Wessex Æthelberht, King of Wessex Æthelberht of Kent Æthelflæd Æthelred I, King of Wessex Æthelred, Lord of the Mercians Æthelred of Mercia Æthelstan A Æthelstan Æthelwold ætheling Æthelwulf, King of Wessex Ben Affleck Afonso, Prince Imperial of Brazil Sadruddin Aga Khan Jonathan Agnew Spiro Agnew Ahmose I Sonam Kapoor Mukhtar al-Thaqafi Albert, Prince Consort Prince Albert Victor, Duke of Clarence and Avondale Alboin Leelah Alcorn Aldfrith of Northumbria Buzz Aldrin Alexander II Zabinas Alexander of Lincoln Raymond Pace Alexander Alexander of Greece Alexandra of Denmark Hadji Ali Princess Alice of Battenberg Alice in Chains Charles-Valentin Alkan Gubby Allen Ike Altgens Luís Alves de Lima e Silva, Duke of Caxias Tommy Amaker Herman Vandenburg Ames Grand Duchess Anastasia Nikolaevna of Russia Anna Anderson William T. Anderson Mário de Andrade Maya Angelou Anna of East Anglia Anne of Denmark Anne, Queen of Great Britain Mary Anning Anthony Roll Antiochus XII Dionysus Marshall Applewhite Yasser Arafat Harriet Arbuthnot Archimedes Princess Louise, Duchess of Argyll Lilias Armstrong Neil Armstrong Chester A. Arthur King Arthur Albert Stanley, 1st Baron Ashfield Shooting of James Ashley Elias Ashmole Andjar Asmara Aspasia Asser Asylum confinement of Christopher Smart Charles Atangana Atlanersa Attalus I James T. Aubrey Audioslave Augustine of Canterbury Augustus Alice Ayres Ba C?t Kroger Babb Walter Bache Alexis Bachelot Peter Badcoe Ivan Bagramyan Hobey Baker James Robert Baker Thomas Baker (aviator) Vidya Balan Baldwin of Forde Christian Bale Albert Ball John Balmer George Calvert, 1st Baron Baltimore Honoré de Balzac Eric Bana Bronwyn Bancroft Edward Mitchell Bannister Ann Bannon Alexandre Banza Joseph Barbera John Barbirolli Alben W. Barkley William Barley Sid Barnes Sid Barnes with the Australian cricket team in England in 1948 Natalie Clifford Barney Nicky Barr Richard Barre John Barrymore Basiliscus Cyril Bassett Arnold Bax Thomas F. Bayard Hugh Beadle The Beatles Felice Beato Princess Beatrice of the United Kingdom Kevin Beattie Otto Becher J. C. W. Beckham Thomas Beecham Isabella Beeton Bix Beiderbecke Mary Bell (aviator) Jean Bellette Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky and the Belyayev circle Judah P. Benjamin Shelton Benjamin William Sterndale Bennett Beorhtwulf of Mercia Moe Berg Gottlob Berger Hector Berlioz Frank Berryman John W. Beschter Biddenden Maids Big Star Steve Biko Golding Bird Norman Birkett, 1st Baron Birkett Georges Bizet Black Francis Blackbeard Arthur Blackburn Luke P. Blackburn Frank Bladin James G. Blaine Thomas Blamey Sophie Blanchard Enid Blyton Bodashtart R. V. C. Bodley Barthélemy Boganda Niels Bohr Jean Bolikango John F. Bolt Margaret Bondfield Stede Bonnet William Bonville, 1st Baron Bonville Daniel Boone Brian Booth William Borah Carsten Borchgrevink Frank Borman Bernard Bosanquet (cricketer) Oliver Bosbyshell Harriet Bosse William Bostock Horatio Bottomley Adrian Boult Matthew Boulton Luc Bourdon David Bowie James Bowie William D. Boyce James E. Boyd (scientist) Juan Davis Bradburn Bessie Braddock Guy Bradley William O'Connell Bradley Don Bradman Don Bradman with the Australian cricket team in England in 1948 Caroline Brady (philologist) Lester Brain Joel Brand William M. Branham John C. Breckinridge Political career of John C. Breckinridge Matthew Brettingham Eric Brewer (ice hockey) William Brill (RAAF officer) Benjamin Britten Isaac Brock Martin Brodeur Neil Brooks Bill Brown (cricketer) Donald Forrester Brown Jesse L. Brown John Y. Brown (politician, born 1835) William Robinson Brown Raymond Brownell Stanley Bruce Steve Bruce William Bruce (architect) William Speirs Bruce Avery Brundage Louise Bryant Martin Bucer Humphrey Stafford, 1st Duke of Buckingham Simon Bolivar Buckner David Hillhouse Buel (priest) William Burges Guy Burgess Burke and Hare murders Robert Burnell Macfarlane Burnet Henry Cornelius Burnett Henry Burrell (admiral) William Henry Bury The Bus Uncle Alan Bush James Wood Bush Vannevar Bush Josephine Butler Pedro Álvares Cabral Cædwalla of Wessex Cai Lun William de St-Calais William Calcraft John C. Calhoun John Calvin Marjorie Cameron Elizabeth Canning Richard Cantillon Georg Cantor Mike Capel Rudolf Caracciola Neville Cardus Mariah Carey Caroline of Ansbach Charles Carroll the Settler Rachel Carson Rudolph Cartier Nancy Cartwright Finn M. W. Caspersen Carlos Castillo Armas Robert Catesby Catherine de' Medici Ceawlin of Wessex James Chadwick Roger B. Chaffee Neville Chamberlain Rise of Neville Chamberlain Happy Chandler Charlie Chaplin Percy Chapman Ian Chappell Charles I of England Charles I of Anjou Charles II of England Jessica Chastain Harry Chauvel Robert de Chesney V. Gordon Childe Choe Bu Frédéric Chopin Priyanka Chopra Murray Chotiner Chrisye Colley Cibber Clarence 13X Wesley Clark Dudley Clarke Rebecca Clarke (composer) Clement of Dunblane Cleopatra Death of Cleopatra Cleopatra Selene of Syria Grover Cleveland Henry Clifford, 10th Baron Clifford Kim Clijsters Cliff Clinkscales Hillary Clinton Harry Cobby Jane Cobden Coenred of Mercia Coenwulf of Mercia Adrian Cole (RAAF officer) Paul Collingwood A. E. J. Collins Martha Layne Collins Michael Collins (astronaut) Bert Combs James B. Conant Constantine II of Scotland Learie Constantine Henry Conwell William Cooley Calvin Coolidge Bradley Cooper D. B. Cooper Gary Cooper John Sherman Cooper Edward Drinker Cope William de Corbeil Richard Cordray Walter de Coutances Stan Coveleski Walter de Coventre Noël Coward William Cragh Ian Craig Stephen Crane Thomas Cranmer Jack Crawford (cricketer) O. G. S. Crawford Tom Crean (explorer) Dick Cresswell Thomas Crisp John J. Crittenden Ben Crosby C. R. M. F. Cruttwell Andrew Cunningham, 1st Viscount Cunningham of Hyndhope Urse d'Abetot Roderic Dallas Damageplan Edward Thomas Daniell Richard Dannatt Charles Darwin Homer Davenport Phillip Davey David I of Scotland Elizabeth David Harold Davidson Randall Davidson Russell T Davies S. O. Davies George Andrew Davis Jr. Jefferson Davis Emily Davison John Day (printer) Claude Debussy Frederick Delius Demosthenes Bill Denny Tom Derrick Joseph Desha Hermann Detzner Deusdedit of Canterbury Emily Dickinson John Diefenbaker Diocletian Walt Disney Benjamin Disraeli D. Djajakusuma Djedkare Isesi Mom?ilo ?uji? Steve Dodd Charles Domery Domitian Donnchadh, Earl of Carrick James A. Doonan John Doubleday (restorer) Alec Douglas-Home John Douglas (architect) Marjory Stoneman Douglas Theodore Komnenos Doukas Neal Dow Roy Dowling Nick Drake Uroš Drenovi? Tom Driberg Montague Druitt Peter Drummond (RAF officer) Vance Drummond W. E. B. Du Bois Du Fu Thích Qu?ng ??c Charles Duke Tim Duncan Bud Dunn Kirsten Dunst Don Dunstan Pavle ?uriši? Killing of Muhammad al-Durrah Bob Dylan Eadbald of Kent Ealdred (archbishop of York) Eardwulf of Northumbria John Early (educator) Bobby Eaton Brian Eaton Charles Eaton (RAAF officer) Isabelle Eberhardt Ecgberht, King of Wessex Adam Eckfeldt Edmund I Edward II of England Edward III of England Edward VI Edward VII Edward VIII Edward the Elder Duncan Edwards Henry Edwards (entomologist) Monroe Edwards Michael Francis Egan Jürgen Ehlers Edward Elgar Elizabeth I Elizabeth II Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother Thomas Ellison Ernest Emerson Ray Emery William Hayden English Epaminondas Antiochus XI Epiphanes Ernest Augustus, King of Hanover Thomas Erpingham William Etty Demetrius III Eucaerus Leonhard Euler Antiochus X Eusebes David Evans (RAAF officer) Edmund Evans Hiram Wesley Evans Peter Evans (swimmer) Exhumation and reburial of Richard III of England Neil Hamilton Fairley Family of Gediminas Bernard Fanning Richie Farmer Ray Farquharson Adolfo Farsari Gabriel Fauré Guy Fawkes William Feiner Bob Feller Percy Fender Enrico Fermi Kathleen Ferrier Richard Feynman Nikita Filatov Millard Fillmore John FitzWalter, 2nd Baron FitzWalter Zelda Fitzgerald Pain fitzJohn Five Go Down to the Sea? Ian Fleming Ernie Fletcher Murder of Yvonne Fletcher Theoren Fleury Gilbert Foliot Joseph B. Foraker Wendell Ford George Formby George Formby Sr Georg Forster George Fox Terry Fox Rakoto Frah Anne Frank Ursula Franklin Frederick the Great Frederick III, German Emperor Robin Friday Caspar David Friedrich John Frusciante Florence Fuller Margaret Fuller Melville Fuller Karl Aloys zu Fürstenberg Dave Gallaher Ronnie Lee Gardner James A. Garfield Tyrone Garland Robert Garran James Garrard Ragnar Garrett William Garrow Ben Gascoigne Jacob Gens Geoffrey (archbishop of York) George I of Great Britain George I of Greece George II of Great Britain George III George IV George V George VI Prince George of Denmark Eddie Gerard Gerard (archbishop of York) Lisa del Giocondo Bobby Gibbes Stella Gibbons Josiah Willard Gibbs William Gibson John Gielgud W. S. Gilbert Adam Gilchrist Arthur Gilligan Nicolo Giraud Hannah Glasse John Glenn Harry Glicken Prince William, Duke of Gloucester Stanley Goble Godsmack Robert Goff, Baron Goff of Chieveley Vincent van Gogh Emma Goldman Michael Gomez E. Urner Goodman George Gosse George H. D. Gossip Arthur Gould (rugby union) Chris Gragg Otto Graham Percy Grainger Rachel Chiesley, Lady Grange Margaret Macpherson Grant Ulysses S. Grant Giovanni Antonio Grassi John de Gray El Greco Horace Greeley Charles Green (Australian soldier) Debora Green Stanley Green Herbert Greenfield Lady Gregory Wayne Gretzky Jane Grigson Joseph Grimaldi Rufus Wilmot Griswold Orval Grove Leslie Groves Rhys ap Gruffydd Bryan Gunn Jake Gyllenhaal Maggie Gyllenhaal H.D. Al-Hafiz James P. Hagerstrom Richard Hakluyt John Richard Clark Hall Ayumi Hamasaki Ron Hamence with the Australian cricket team in England in 1948 Wally Hammond Amir Hamzah Valston Hancock Winfield Scott Hancock Learned Hand Mark Hanna William Hanna Colin Hannah William Hardham Warren G. Harding Donald Hardman William Harper (Rhodesian politician) Benjamin Harrison Fairfax Harrison George Harrison William Henry Harrison Phil Hartman Francis Harvey Neil Harvey with the Australian cricket team in England in 1948 Dominik Hašek Lindsay Hassett with the Australian cricket team in England in 1948 Anne Hathaway Simon Hatley Eric A. Havelock Richard Hawes Ethan Hawke John Hay Rutherford B. Hayes Elwood Haynes Frank Headlam George Headley Patrick Francis Healy Charles Heaphy Reginald Heber Princess Helena of the United Kingdom John L. Helm William Hely Ernest Hemingway Paul Henderson Canadian drug charges and trial of Jimi Hendrix Death of Jimi Hendrix Jimi Hendrix Henry I of England Henry III of England Henry IV, Holy Roman Emperor Henry (bishop of Finland) Patrick Henry Thierry Henry George Went Hensley Katharine Hepburn George Herriman Edmund Herring Herbie Hewett Joe Hewitt (RAAF officer) Georgette Heyer Peter Heywood Hi-5 (Australian group) Hilary of Chichester Clem Hill Damon Hill Lynn Hill William Hillcourt Bernard Hinault Thomas C. Hindman Hippocrates George Hirst Garret Hobart Jack Hobbs Philip Seymour Hoffman Ima Hogg James Hogun Charles Holden Les Holden Disappearance of Natalee Holloway Stanley Holloway Oliver Wendell Holmes Sr. Gustav Holst Imogen Holst Michael Hordern Kenneth Horne Rogers Hornsby E. W. Hornung Brian Horrocks Nicholas Hoult House of Plantagenet Margaret Lea Houston Art Houtteman Juwan Howard C. D. Howe Robert Howe (Continental Army officer) Cedric Howell Hu Zhengyan Thomas J. Hudner Jr. Robert Hues Paterson Clarence Hughes Caesar Hull James Humphreys (pornographer) Josh Hutcherson Anne Hutchinson Len Hutton Hygeberht Jarome Iginla Fanny Imlay Joaquim José Inácio, Viscount of Inhaúma Ine of Wessex Charles Inglis (engineer) Harold Innis Roy Inwood Irataba Isabeau of Bavaria Ismail I of Granada Hastings Ismay, 1st Baron Ismay Israel the Grammarian Satoru Iwata Andrew Jackson Archie Jackson Janet Jackson John Francis Jackson Michael Jackson Mike Jackson (British Army officer) Hattie Jacques James II of England James VI and I Jamiroquai Eusèbe Jaojoby Douglas Jardine Peter Jeffrey (RAAF officer) Frank Jenner Peter Jennings Jørgen Jensen (soldier) Jesus Derek Jeter Dobroslav Jev?evi? Muhammad Ali Jinnah Joan of Arc Jocelin of Glasgow Joehana Scarlett Johansson John Edward Brownlee as Attorney-General of Alberta John, King of England Andrew Johnson Ian Johnson (cricketer) Joseph Johnson (publisher) Keen Johnson Keith Johnson (cricket administrator) Magic Johnson Early life of Samuel Johnson Samuel Johnson Andrew Johnston (singer) David A. Johnston John W. Johnston Angelina Jolie Murder of Dwayne Jones George Jones (RAAF officer) Peter Jones (missionary) Michael Jordan Bradley Joseph Jane Joseph Josquin des Prez Jovan Vladimir Joy Division Ernest Joyce James Joyce Master Juba Justus Ted Kaczynski Franz Kafka Paul Kagame Edgar Kain Dimple Kapadia Kareena Kapoor Abdul Karim (the Munshi) Robert Kaske Masako Katsura J. R. Kealoha Maynard James Keenan Fred Keenor George F. Kennan Assassination of Robert F. Kennedy Susi Kentikian Jomo Kenyatta Johannes Kepler Mark Kerry André Kertész Albert Ketèlbey Akhtar Hameed Khan Shah Rukh Khan Hasan al-Kharrat Nikita Khrushchev Bill Kibby Craig Kieswetter Harmon Killebrew Roy Kilner Bart King Elwyn Roy King Bruce Kingsbury Thomas C. Kinkaid The Kinks Johann von Klenau Nigel Kneale John Knox Kalki Koechlin Manuel I Komnenos Tadeusz Ko?ciuszko Sandy Koufax George Koval Christopher C. Kraft Jr. Walter Krueger Paul Kruger Nikolai Kulikovsky Nodar Kumaritashvili Cynna Kydd Leah LaBelle Lady Gaga Gilbert du Motier, Marquis de Lafayette Ruby Laffoon Nestor Lakoba Mathew Charles Lamb Daniel Lambert Osbert Lancaster Kenesaw Mountain Landis Franklin Knight Lane Cosmo Gordon Lang George Lansbury LaRouche criminal trials Brie Larson Harold Larwood Lat (cartoonist) Laurence of Canterbury Jennifer Lawrence Ursula K. Le Guin John Le Mesurier Lê Quang Tung John Leak Raymond Leane Louis Leblanc Faith Leech Vivien Leigh Émile Lemoine Etta Lemon Suzanne Lenglen Vladimir Lenin John Lennon Dan Leno Helmut Lent John Lerew Harriet Leveson-Gower, Countess Granville David Lewis (Canadian politician) Maurice Leyland Lie Kim Hok Marcel Lihau Eli Lilly Ernst Lindemann Trevor Linden Lindow Man Ray Lindwall with the Australian cricket team in England in 1948 El Lissitzky Little Tich Marie Lloyd Stefan Lochner Kellie Loder Carl Hans Lody Huey Long James B. Longacre William de Longchamp James Longstreet Joseph A. Lopez Lorde Prince Louis of Battenberg Courtney Love David Lovering Edward Low James Russell Lowell Sam Loxton Sam Loxton with the Australian cricket team in England in 1948 John Bingham, 7th Earl of Lucan Steve Lukather Glynn Lunney Luo Yixiu Roberto Luongo Witold Lutos?awski Marcus Ward Lyon Jr. Douglas MacArthur's escape from the Philippines Douglas MacArthur Charlie Macartney George Macaulay Angus Lewis Macdonald John A. Macdonald Gregor MacGregor Iven Mackay William Lyon Mackenzie Aeneas Mackintosh Archie MacLaren Bernard A. Maguire Gustav Mahler Miriam Makeba Malcolm X Garnet Malley Haane Manahi Manchester Mummy Nelson Mandela Bob Mann (American football) Olivia Manning Marcian Margaret (singer) Princess Maria Amélia of Brazil Clements Markham John Churchill, 1st Duke of Marlborough Sarah Churchill, Duchess of Marlborough Francis Marrash Jack Marsh Bob Marshall (wilderness activist) Thomas R. Marshall Billy Martin Marwan I Mary II of England Mary, Queen of Scots Mary of Teck Herbert Maryon Evelyn Mase George Mason Jules Massenet Frank Matcham Empress Matilda Lionel Matthews William Matthews (priest) Maximian Maximus the Confessor Murray Maxwell Jimmy McAleer Early life and military career of John McCain John McCain Bill McCann Paul McCartney John McCauley James Whiteside McCay Barbara McClintock James B. McCreary Lanny McDonald Frances Gertrude McGill John McGraw William McGregor (football) William McKinley Lesley J. McNair Frank McNamara (RAAF officer) H. C. McNeile Harry McNish William McSherry Ian Dougald McLachlan Alan McNicoll Ian Meckiff Ezra Meeker Jacobus Anthonie Meessen Megadeth B. Max Mehl Manon Melis Mellitus Danie Mellor Felix Mendelssohn Menkauhor Kaiu Mercury Seven Meshuggah André Messager Olivier Messiaen Metallica Bob Meusel August Meyszner Michael Brown Okinawa assault incident Khalid al-Mihdhar Military service of Ian Smith Harvey Milk Early life of Keith Miller Keith Miller in the 1946–47 Australian cricket season Keith Miller with the Australian cricket team in England in 1948 Kylie Minogue Sherman Minton Nancy Mitford Muhammad I of Granada Arthur Mold Emery Molyneux Marilyn Monroe Madeline Montalban Pierre Monteux Claudio Monteverdi George Moore (novelist) Henry Moore James Moore (Continental Army officer) Julianne Moore Fred Moosally Emanuel Moravec Howie Morenz Sandra Morgan Benjamin Morrell Arthur Morris Edwin P. Morrow Meinhard Michael Moser Benjamin Mountfort Mozart in Italy Al-Mu'tadid Al-Mu'tasim Muhammad II of Granada Muhammad III of Granada Muhammad ibn Tughj al-Ikhshid Muhammad IV of Granada Rani Mukerji Samuel Mulledy Thomas F. Mulledy Baron Munchausen Douglas Albert Munro Madman Muntz Murasaki Shikibu Alister Murdoch Audie Murphy Cillian Murphy Harry Murray Margaret Murray Stan Musial R. A. B. Mynors Florence Nagle Fridtjof Nansen Daisy Jugadai Napaltjarri Wintjiya Napaltjarri Makinti Napanangka Ram Narayan Francis Nash Nasr of Granada John Neal (writer) Elizabeth Needham Neferefre Neferirkare Kakai James Nesbitt Hugh de Neville Ralph Neville James Newland Sydney Newman Bill Newton Ngô ?ình C?n Nguy?n Chánh Thi Carl Nielsen Nigel (bishop of Ely) Nine Inch Nails Nirvana (band) Pat Nixon Richard Nixon Emmy Noether John Mowbray, 3rd Duke of Norfolk Ruth Norman Roger Norreis Emperor Norton The Notorious B.I.G. Lisa Nowak Louie Nunn Nyuserre Ini Mary Margaret O'Reilly Barack Obama Ian O'Brien Odaenathus Óengus I Oerip Soemohardjo Offa of Mercia Kevin O'Halloran Grand Duchess Olga Alexandrovna of Russia Grand Duchess Olga Nikolaevna of Russia Olga Constantinovna of Russia Mark Oliphant Bronwyn Oliver Laurence Olivier Gerard K. O'Neill Opeth J. Robert Oppenheimer Sergo Ordzhonikidze Bill O'Reilly (cricketer) Leo Ornstein Johnny Owen Deepika Padukone Andreas Palaiologos Lionel Palairet Emmeline Pankhurst Honório Hermeto Carneiro Leão, Marquis of Paraná José Paranhos, Viscount of Rio Branco Jack Parsons (rocket engineer) William Sterling Parsons Ben Paschal George S. Patton George S. Patton slapping incidents Paul E. Patton Ellis Paul Paulinus of York Death of Blair Peach Robert Peake the Elder Franklin Peale Pearl Jam Kosta Pe?anac Pedro I of Brazil Pedro II of Brazil Pedro Afonso, Prince Imperial of Brazil Bobby Peel Walter Peeler I. M. Pei Penda of Mercia Jerry Pentland Pepi I Meryre Thomas Percy (Gunpowder Plot) Pericles Katy Perry Henry Petre Milorad Petrovi? Ph?m Ng?c Th?o Phan ?ình Phùng Phan Xích Long Philip I Philadelphus Philitas of Cos Roy Phillipps Erin Phillips Tommy Phillips Artur Phleps Frank Pick Franklin Pierce Albert Pierrepoint Józef Pi?sudski Pink Floyd Harold Pinter Freida Pinto Benedetto Pistrucci Henry Ho?olulu Pitman Brad Pitt Pixies (band) John Plagis Jacques Plante Thomas Playford IV Gabriel Pleydell Edgar Allan Poe Virginia Eliza Clemm Poe Jean Baptiste Point du Sable James K. Polk Reg Pollard (general) Edwin Taylor Pollock Bill Ponsford Lazare Ponticelli Manuel Marques de Sousa, Count of Porto Alegre Francis Poulenc Ezra Pound Powderfinger Elizabeth Willing Powel Premiership of John Edward Brownlee Elvis Presley Joseph Priestley Adelaide Anne Procter Tom Pryce CM Punk Hilary Putnam Minnie Pwerle Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky and The Five Vidkun Quisling R.E.M. Jean-Joseph Rabearivelo Isidor Isaac Rabi Arthur W. Radford Radiohead Ion Heliade R?dulescu Elizabeth Raffald Rainilaiarivony Ramesses VI Alf Ramsey Norodom Ranariddh Kangana Ranaut Ranavalona I Ranavalona III Samuel J. Randall Milos Raonic Maurice Ravel Peter Raw Satyajit Ray William F. Raynolds Nancy Reagan Ronald Reagan Red Barn Murder Talbot Baines Reed Richard Gavin Reid Marian Rejewski Stamata Revithi L. D. Reynolds Wilfred Rhodes Richard II of England J. R. Richard Maurice Richard J. Havens Richards Ralph Richardson Louis Riel Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov Jochen Rindt Mariano Rivera Hilda Rix Nicholas Robert of Jumièges Iwan Roberts Robert Roberts (author) George Robey Jackie Robinson Bobby Robson Roekiah Woodes Rogers Ambrose Rookwood Prince Romerson George W. Romney Mitt Romney William de Ros, 6th Baron Ros Juan Manuel de Rosas Hannah Primrose, Countess of Rosebery Elias Abraham Rosenberg Hrithik Roshan Art Ross Lawrence Sullivan Ross Gioachino Rossini James Rowland (RAAF officer) J. K. Rowling Jacob van Ruisdael Maria Rundell Martin Rundkvist Bill Russell Babe Ruth Alexander Cameron Rutherford Rex Ryan James A. Ryder John/Eleanor Rykener William S. Sadler Sahure Lady Saig? Camille Saint-Saëns Joe Sakic Salih ibn Mirdas Teresa Sampsonia Omayra Sánchez William Edward Sanders Joey Santiago Sasha (DJ) Mark Satin Death of Mark Saunders Reg Saunders Stanley Savige Henry W. Sawyer Antonin Scalia Frederick Scherger Sigi Schmid Charles Scott (governor) David Scott Robert Falcon Scott John Martin Scripps Uriel Sebree Laura Secord Daniel Sedin Henrik Sedin Seleucus VI Epiphanes Norman Selfe Peter Sellers Domenico Selvo Joel Selwood Jason Sendwe Sennacherib Waisale Serevi William H. Seward Sex Pistols Friedrich Wilhelm von Seydlitz Ernest Shackleton Kenneth R. Shadrick Olivia Shakespear William Shakespeare Solomon P. Sharp Edmund Sharpe George Bernard Shaw Sebastian Shaw (actor) Joseph Francis Shea Wail al-Shehri Isaac Shelby Mary Shelley Shen Kuo Alan Shepard Elliott Fitch Shepard Jack Sheppard Kate Sheppard Shepseskare John Sherman William Tecumseh Sherman Grace Sherwood Mary Martha Sherwood Sheshi Dmitri Shostakovich Alfred Shout Shunzhi Emperor Sabrina Sidney Siegfried Lederer's escape from Auschwitz Arthur Sifton Silverchair Simeon I of Bulgaria Tom Simpson Wallis Simpson Siward, Earl of Northumbria Tyler Skaggs Red Skelton Slayer Andrew Sledd Louis Slotin The Smashing Pumpkins Bed?ich Smetana Faryl Smith Issy Smith Lee Smith (baseball) Ozzie Smith Samantha Smith Albertus Soegijapranata Georg Solti Kaikhosru Shapurji Sorabji Aaron Sorkin Albert Speer Lou Spence Edgar Speyer Adele Spitzeder Jo Stafford Myles Standish Charles Villiers Stanford Augustus Owsley Stanley Ringo Starr William T. Stearn Gwen Stefani Rod Steiger Ed Stelmach Casey Stengel Stephen I of Hungary Stephen, King of England Stereolab Thaddeus Stevens Clare Stevenson Melford Stevenson Charles Stewart (premier) Stigand Constance Stokes Emma Stone Charles H. Stonestreet Strapping Young Lad Eduard Streltsov Charlotte Stuart, Duchess of Albany Hod Stuart Ronald Stuart Vernon Sturdee Sudirman Sulayman ibn Abd al-Malik Arthur Sullivan Arthur Sullivan (Australian soldier) Jethro Sumner The Supremes Jean-François de Surville Taylor Swift John Millington Synge William Howard Taft Paul Palaiologos Tagaris T?ru Takemitsu Don Tallon Bazy Tankersley Tarrare Paul Nobuo Tatsuguchi Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky Tecumseh Edward Teller Terry-Thomas Theobald of Bec Teresa Cristina of the Two Sicilies John Thirtle Nguy?n Ng?c Th? Thomas of Bayeux Murder of Julia Martha Thomas Thomas the Slav William Beach Thomas Jim Thome James Thompson (surveyor) Tiny Thompson Tom Thomson Ian Thorpe Jeremy Thorpe Jim Thorpe Thurisind Paul Tibbets Tichborne case Benjamin Franklin Tilley Benjamin Tillman Michael Tippett Tiridates I of Armenia Joseph W. Tkach James Tod Mary Toft J. R. R. Tolkien Billy Joe Tolliver Death of Ian Tomlinson Tôn Th?t ?ính Mark Tonelli Tool (band) Ernie Toshack Ernie Toshack with the Australian cricket team in England in 1948 Edgar Towner Meghan Trainor Bert Trautmann John Treloar (museum administrator) Marcus Trescothick Francis Tresham Stephen Trigg Sarah Trimmer Harry Trott Harry R. Truman Harry S. Truman Hugh Trumble Irakli Tsereteli Harriet Tubman George Tucker (politician) Thurman Tucker D. H. Turner Emma Louisa Turner Dick Turpin John Tyler John Tyndall (far-right activist) U2 Morihei Ueshiba Unas Uncle Tupelo Userkaf Fakih Usman Edvard August Vainio Mary van Kleeck Ralph Vaughan Williams Hedley Verity Peter Martyr Vermigli Georges Vézina Princess Victoria of Hesse and by Rhine Queen Victoria Giovanni Villani George Vincent (painter) Barry Voight Kurt Vonnegut Jerry Voorhis Rudolf Vrba Vesna Vulovi? Ellis Wackett Abe Waddington John Lloyd Waddy Cosima Wagner Richard Wagner Princess Charlotte of Wales Kenneth Walker Alfred Russel Wallace Hector Waller Hugh Walpole Francis Walsingham Hubert Walter Allan Walters William Walton Joe Warbrick Fabian Ware William Warelwast Blair Wark John Wark Peter Warlock Jack L. Warner George Washington and slavery George Washington (inventor) Roger Waters Emma Watson Oswald Watt Evelyn Waugh Lawrence Weathers James B. Weaver Stanley Price Weir Henry Wells (general) Lawrence Wetherby Tyrone Wheatley Mortimer Wheeler Ryan White Thomas White (Australian politician) Gough Whitlam John Whittle The Wiggles Wiglaf of Mercia Wihtred of Kent William Wilberforce Wilco Maurice Wilder-Neligan Wilfrid Ellen Wilkinson William III of England William IV William of Wrotham William of Tyre William the Conqueror Bernard Williams Michelle Williams (actress) Nigel Williams (conservator) Richard Williams (RAAF officer) Nathaniel Parker Willis Wendell Willkie Francis Willughby John Wilton (general) Bob Windle Kate Winslet Reese Witherspoon W?adys?aw II Jagie??o P. G. Wodehouse Mary Wollstonecraft Rudolf Wolters Anna May Wong Henry Wood Samuel Merrill Woodbridge Michael Woodruff James Park Woods Alfred Worden Fanny Bullock Workman Edward Wright (mathematician) John Michael Wright Henry Wrigley Wulfhere of Mercia William Wurtenburg Yao Ming Robert Sterling Yard Yazid I Murder of Joanna Yeates W. B. Yeats John Young (astronaut) Yusuf I of Granada Frank Zappa Zenobia Farran Zerbe Catherine Zeta-Jones Zhang Heng Zhou Tong (archer) Preity Zinta Otto Julius Zobel Scott Zolak Nikita Zotov Huldrych Zwingli Peter van Geersdaele Associated Wikimedia The following Wikimedia Foundation sister projects provide more on this subject: Wikibooks Books Commons Media Wikinews News Wikiquote Quotations Wikisource Texts Wikiversity Learning resources Wiktionary Definitions Wikidata Database Portals Activities Culture Geography Health History Mathematics Nature People Philosophy Religion Society Technology Random portal What are portals? List of portals Sub-pages of Portal:Biography Purge server cache Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Biography&oldid=1054781394" Categories: All portals Biography portal Biography (genre) Hidden categories: Pages using Template:Post-nominals with missing parameters Portals with triaged subpages from June 2018 All portals with triaged subpages Portals with no named maintainer Portals with short description Wikipedia semi-protected portals Wikipedia move-protected portals Automated article-slideshow portals with over 1000 articles in article list Past featured portals Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Portal Talk Variants expanded collapsed Views Read View source View history More expanded collapsed Search Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikisource Languages ??????? ????? Bân-lâm-gú ????????? ?????????? ?????????? (???????????) ????????? Bosanski Brezhoneg Català Cebuano ?eština Deutsch ?????????? Eesti ???????? Español Esperanto ????? Français ??????? ?????? Hrvatski ????????????? ??????? Bahasa Indonesia Italiano ????? Kapampangan ??????? ??????? Kiswahili Kurdî ???????? Latviešu Lietuvi? ?????????? ?????? ???? ???? ??? Bahasa Melayu ?????????? ??? ??????? Occitan O?zbekcha/??????? Polski Português Român? ??????? ????? ???? Sloven?ina Soomaaliga ????? ?????? / srpski Suomi ???????/tatarça ????????? ?????? Türkçe ?????????? ???? Xitsonga Yorùbá ?? Zazaki ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 12 November 2021, at 02:04 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement