Portal:Current events - Wikipedia
Portal:Current events - Wikipedia Portal:Current events From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Portal maintenance status: (October 2020) This portal's subpages have been checked by an editor, and are needed. Please take care when editing, especially if using automated editing software. Learn how to update the maintenance information here. Wikipedia portal for content related to Current events Edit instructions Worldwide current events Sports events Recent deaths Topics in the news Nicolae Ciuc? A coalition government, led by Prime Minister Nicolae Ciuc? (pictured), takes office in Romania, ending a nearly three-month-long political crisis. At least fifty people are killed in a mining accident in Kemerovo Oblast, Russia. Twenty-seven people die when their dinghy capsizes in the English Channel. The Double Asteroid Redirection Test (DART) mission is launched to attempt to change the orbit of the asteroid moon Dimorphos. Ongoing: COVID-19 pandemic Recent deaths: Virgil Abloh M?rti?š Brauns Frank Williams Almudena Grandes Lubomyra Mandziy Oleksandr Omelchenko Nominate an article November 29, 2021 (2021-11-29) (Monday) edit history watch November 28, 2021 (2021-11-28) (Sunday) edit history watch Armed conflicts and attacks Islamic State insurgency in Iraq Five Peshmerga fighters are killed and four more wounded during a shooting and bombing attack by Islamic State. (Al Jazeera) 2020–2021 Ethiopian–Sudanese clashes Six Sudanese soldiers are killed during a confrontation with Ethiopian troops in a disputed border region. (Al Jazeera) Operation Barkhane A convoy carrying French troops in Niger open fire against locals in Téra, Tillabéri Region, who were protesting against their presence in the country, killing two people and wounding 18 others. (The Guardian) Disasters and accidents 2021 Amazonas earthquake A 7.5 magnitude earthquake and at 131 kilometres (81 mi) of depth, strikes northern Peru, causing damage to 220 homes; destroying 75 of them. The quake was felt as south as Lima, but no casualties have been reported. President Pedro Castillo has ordered the deployment of relief and supervised the area by air. (Reuters) Health and environment COVID-19 pandemic Travel during the COVID-19 pandemic COVID-19 pandemic in Asia COVID-19 pandemic in Israel Israel closes its borders to all foreigners and requires its citizens to quarantine for three days for fully vaccinated and seven days for the unvaccinated in a bid to curb the spread of the Omicron variant. (France 24) COVID-19 pandemic in Maldives Maldives bans entry to flights from seven African countries; South Africa, Botswana, Zimbabwe, Mozambique, Namibia, Lesotho, Malawi and Eswatini. (CNA) COVID-19 pandemic in the Philippines The Philippines bans entry to flights from seven European countries; Austria, Belgium, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Italy, the Netherlands and Switzerland. Also the entry of fully vaccinated foreign nationals from green-list countries that was to start on December 1 is temporarily suspended. (Rappler) COVID-19 pandemic in Africa COVID-19 pandemic in Morocco The Moroccan government announces that it will halt all incoming passenger flights for two weeks. (Al Jazeera) COVID-19 pandemic in Rwanda Rwanda temporarily suspends its commercial flight to Southern Africa region due to the emergence of the Omicron variant first detected there. (The New Times) COVID-19 pandemic in the Netherlands The Netherlands tightens its partial lockdown restrictions that force non-essential shops, sports facilities, hospitality and cultural venues to close at 5 p.m. and chemists, supermarkets, and wholesalers to close at 8 p.m. amid a record amount of COVID-19 cases and concerns about the Omicron variant. (BBC News) The Netherlands reports its first cases of the Omicron variant in 13 travellers from South Africa who arrived from the country on November 26. (ABC News) COVID-19 pandemic in Australia Commonwealth of Australia reports its first cases of the Omicron variant in two recent New South Wales returnees from Southern Africa who are currently quarantined in a hotel. (ABC News Australia) Politics and elections 2021 Czech legislative election Petr Fiala is designated as Prime Minister of the Czech Republic to form a majority government following the October election. (Deutsche Welle) 2021 Honduran general election Hondurans go to the polls to elect their next President. (KSMU-FM) 2021 Kyrgyz parliamentary election Kyrgyzstan holds parliamentary elections after the annulment of the results of the October 2020 elections following the 2020 Kyrgyzstani protests. (Al Jazeera) November 27, 2021 (2021-11-27) (Saturday) edit history watch Armed conflicts and attacks 2021 social unrest in the French West Indies France says that it is willing to discuss greater autonomy for Guadeloupe if "it is in the interests of the people who live there". The Caribbean archipelago has experienced violent demonstrations in recent days, and Guadeloupean officials have raised the issue of autonomy with France. (Reuters) Business and economy List of events affected by the COVID-19 pandemic The World Trade Organization postpones its four-day Ministerial Conference, which was scheduled to be held on November 29 in Geneva, Switzerland, amid the emergence of the new Omicron variant that was declared a "Variant of Concern" by the WHO. (France 24) Disasters and accidents 2021–22 European windstorm season Three people are killed in the United Kingdom as Storm Arwen hits the British Isles. Widespread damage and travel disruptions are reported in Scotland and North East England, with 100,000 people losing power. (BBC News) (BBC News) (BBC News) Health and environment COVID-19 pandemic COVID-19 pandemic in Europe COVID-19 pandemic in Belgium Belgium imposes new anti-COVID-19 measures that close nightclubs, discos and dance halls, require businesses in the hospitality sector to close at 11 p.m., ban organised private parties, and limit the number of people at tables at bars and restaurants to six people unless they are from the same household, amid a fourth wave of the pandemic. (The Brussels Times) COVID-19 pandemic in Czech Republic The Czech Republic reports its first case of the SARS-CoV-2 Omicron variant in a woman in Liberec who had been in Namibia. She had passed through South Africa and Dubai on her flight to the Czech Republic. (Deutsche Welle) COVID-19 pandemic in Germany Germany reports its first cases of the SARS-CoV-2 Omicron variant in two people in Bavaria who entered the country at Munich Airport on November 24. (Deutsche Welle) COVID-19 pandemic in Italy Italy reports its first case of the SARS-CoV-2 Omicron variant in a person who travelled from Mozambique. (Times of Malta) COVID-19 pandemic in the United Kingdom The United Kingdom reports its first cases of the SARS-CoV-2 Omicron variant in two people who travelled from southern Africa to Chelmsford and Nottingham. (BBC News) COVID-19 pandemic in Bangladesh, Travel during the COVID-19 pandemic Bangladesh suspends the entry of travellers from South Africa amid fears of the spread of the SARS-CoV-2 Omicron variant first detected in Botswana. (Business-Standard) November 26, 2021 (2021-11-26) (Friday) edit history watch Armed conflicts and attacks 2021 Solomon Islands unrest Australian Federal Police take control of the Solomon Islands capital of Honiara following three days of civil unrest. A night time curfew begins at 7 pm local time while rioting and looting continues in the Chinatown suburb of the city. (Reuters) Three people are found dead at a burnt-out store in the Chinatown suburb in Honiara. (Al Jazeera) Business and economy Economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic Stocks and oil prices decline sharply amid growing concerns over the SARS-CoV-2 Omicron variant. (FT) (CNBC) Disasters and accidents 2021 Mexico bus crash A passenger bus crashes on a highway in San José del Rincón, Mexico, killing 19 people and injuring 32 others. (ABC News) Health and environment COVID-19 pandemic COVID-19 pandemic in Europe COVID-19 pandemic in Belgium Belgium reports its first case of the Omicron variant in an unvaccinated person who travelled abroad. (Reuters) COVID-19 pandemic in the Czech Republic The Czech Republic reports a record 27,717 new cases of COVID-19 in the past 24 hours. (The Washington Post) COVID-19 pandemic in France France imposes mandatory mask wearing in all indoor venues and outdoor Christmas markets, even when a Health Pass is required for an event, due to an increase in COVID-19 cases, hospitalizations, and deaths. (Euronews) COVID-19 pandemic in Germany Germany reports a record for the third consecutive day of 76,414 new cases of COVID-19. (Anadolu Agency) COVID-19 pandemic in Asia COVID-19 pandemic in Hong Kong Hong Kong reports its first two cases of the Omicron variant in a man who had travelled from South Africa this month, and later in another man staying across the hall in the same quarantine hotel. (The New York Times) COVID-19 pandemic in Israel Israel reports its first case of the Omicron variant in a person who travelled from Malawi. (The Times of Israel) COVID-19 pandemic in the Philippines, Travel during the COVID-19 pandemic The Inter-Agency Task Force for the Management of Emerging Infectious Diseases approves the entry of fully-vaccinated foreign nationals from green-list countries beginning on December 1. (Philippine Daily Inquirer) SARS-CoV-2 Omicron variant The World Health Organization names the Lineage B.1.1.529 variant as "Omicron" and designates it as a "variant of concern" due to the variant's large number of mutations and an increased risk of reinfection. (The Hill) Canada, the EU, Israel, Japan, Morocco, the Philippines, Singapore, Turkey, the UAE, the UK, and the U.S. ban flights from South Africa, Namibia, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Lesotho, Mozambique, Malawi, and Eswatini due to the Omicron variant. (CNN) International relations Russia–Ukraine relations Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky accuses Russia of plotting a coup against him and says that Ukrainian tycoon Rinat Akhmetov was being enlisted to help plan the coup. Zelensky says that his country "is prepared for any scenario" as tensions rise. (The Washington Post) 2021 Belarus–European Union border crisis Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko makes a public appearance at the Belarus–Poland border for the first time since the migrant crisis began. Lukashenko gave a speech to migrants, telling them that they were free to either return home or head west, saying, "If you want to go westwards, we won't detain you, choke you, beat you. It's up to you. Go through. Go". (Reuters) France–Italy relations Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi and French President Emmanuel Macron sign a treaty that strengthens the ties between the two countries "in areas including defence, migration, the economy, culture and trade". (Euractiv) (ANSA) Law and crime Mass shootings in the United States Three people are killed and four others injured during a mass shooting in Nashville, Tennessee, United States. (NBC News) November 25, 2021 (2021-11-25) (Thursday) edit history watch Armed conflicts and attacks Somali Civil War November 2021 Mogadishu bombing A car bombing targeting a UN convoy explodes outside a school in Mogadishu, killing eight people and injuring 17 others. Jihadist group al-Shabaab claims responsibility for the attack. (Al Jazeera) Piracy in the Gulf of Guinea Royal Danish Navy frigate HDMS Esbern Snare opens fire and kills four pirates in the Gulf of Guinea after being fired upon. Four other pirates are detained and taken aboard by Frogman Corps. The incident took place 25 to 30 nautical miles south of the territorial boundary of Nigeria. (Reuters) At least 35 people are killed during an eight-day fight over a dispute about camel looting between herders in Jebel Moon, Darfur, Sudan. Sixteen villages and thousands of homes are also set on fire. (Al Jazeera) Disasters and accidents Listvyazhnaya mine disaster A fire inside a coal mine in Kemerovo Oblast, Russia, traps 285 miners underground. Forty-six miners are killed and 49 others are being treated for smoke inhalation in hospital. Five rescuers later die while searching for trapped miners, bringing the total death toll to 51. (DW) (CBC) Health and environment COVID-19 pandemic COVID-19 pandemic in Europe COVID-19 pandemic in Spain The High Court of Justice of Catalonia approves the use of the COVID-19 immunity passport for restaurants, bars and fitness centers in the region. (El País) Establishments in Aragon, such as restaurants and nightclubs, begin requiring certificates of immunity for entry. (Expansión) COVID-19 pandemic in the Czech Republic The government declares a 30-day state of emergency and imposes new measures that will require bars and restaurants to close at 10 p.m., bans alcohol consumption at bars and restaurants, restricts the number of people at gatherings and events and bans Christmas markets. These measures will take effect tomorrow. (Radio Prague International) COVID-19 pandemic in France The French Minister of Social Affairs and Health announces a nationalized plan to provide a third booster dose of the COVID-19 vaccines to all adults beginning on 27 November, instead of enacting another nationwide state of lockdown in order to reduce the currently record-breaking spread of COVID-19. (Associated Press) COVID-19 pandemic in Germany Germany surpasses 100,000 deaths from COVID-19 and also reports a record 75,961 new cases of COVID-19 in the past 24 hours. (ABC News) COVID-19 pandemic in the United Kingdom The United Kingdom surpasses 10 million cases of COVID-19. (ITV News) European Union response to the COVID-19 pandemic Travel during the COVID-19 pandemic The European Commission issues recommendations that the issuance of the EU Digital COVID Certificate be shortened to nine months with a requirement to receive a booster dose. Furthermore, the commission recommends the acceptance of all COVID-19 vaccines listed under the Emergency Use Listing by the World Health Organization, including Chinese and Indian-produced vaccines. (Reuters) COVID-19 vaccine The European Medicines Agency officially approves the use of the Pfizer–BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine for children between the ages of 5 and 11 years, becoming the first vaccine to be approved for these age groups in Europe. (Associated Press) COVID-19 pandemic in Australia, COVID-19 vaccination in Australia COVID-19 pandemic in Victoria The number of people who have received a second dose of the COVID-19 vaccine in Victoria surpasses 90%. (7 News) COVID-19 pandemic in Argentina, COVID-19 vaccination in Argentina Argentina receives 2.5 million doses of the COVID-19 vaccine, which includes 1.1 million doses of the Pfizer–BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine and 1.3 million doses of the Oxford–AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine. (ANDigital) COVID-19 pandemic in Laos Laos reports a record 1,504 new cases of COVID-19 in the past 24 hours, thereby bringing the nationwide total of confirmed cases to 67,322. (The Laotian Times) COVID-19 pandemic in South Africa, SARS-CoV-2 Omicron variant South African scientists detect a new COVID-19 variant named Lineage B.1.1.529 that poses a "major threat" to efforts to reduce the spread of the virus, and blames the variant for the exponential rise of new cases in the country. (Deutsche Welle) The latest quinquennial National Family Health Survey in India finds that the population's total fertility rate has dropped to a point below the key replacement rate for the first time in the nation's history. (The Washington Post) International relations COVID-19 pandemic in Israel, COVID-19 pandemic in Africa, Travel restrictions related to the COVID-19 pandemic Israel bans entry of travellers from South Africa, Lesotho, Botswana, Zimbabwe, Mozambique, Namibia and Eswatini and discourages its citizens from travelling to those countries due to the emergence of the Lineage B.1.1.529 variant. (Reuters) Turkey–United Arab Emirates relations Turkey and the United Arab Emirates sign several investment accords during a high-level visit to Ankara by Abu Dhabi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, including a $10 billion investment fund to support the Turkish health and energy sectors. The Turkish and Emirati central banks also sign a cooperation agreement. (Reuters) Law and crime 2021 Solomon Islands unrest Rioters demanding the resignation of Solomon Islands Prime Minister Manasseh Sogavare set fire to buildings in Honiara's Chinatown neighborhood. Protesters have been defying a 36-hour lockdown imposed following unrest yesterday. (The Guardian) Australia announces that it will deploy federal police and Australian Defence Force personnel to Honiara to aid with riot control and to secure infrastructure sites following a formal request for help from Prime Minister Sogavare. (SBS News) (Solomon Times) Opposition leader Matthew Wale calls on the prime minister and his government to resign. (Solomon Times) Blasphemy in Pakistan Four Muslim men are charged with blasphemy, after arguing with an Imam who refused to make a funeral announcement for a Christian man in the village of Khodi Khushal Singh, Punjab, Pakistan. (Al Jazeera) Politics and elections 2021 Romanian political crisis The Parliament of Romania votes the investiture of Prime Minister Nicolae Ciuc?'s grand coalition cabinet, thereby ending nearly the political crisis. (Politico) November 24, 2021 (2021-11-24) (Wednesday) edit history watch Armed conflicts and attacks Tigray War TDF–OLA joint offensive Ethiopian prime minister Abiy Ahmed joins ENDF troops on the frontline to fight advancing rebel forces, transferring his day-to-day duties to deputy prime minister Demeke Mekonnen. (The Independent) Russo-Ukrainian War British foreign secretary Liz Truss warns Russia that any attack on Ukraine would be a "grave mistake", and that the UK is working closely with its NATO allies to provide support to Ukraine. (Reuters) Ukraine launches a "special operation" on the Belarusian border involving troops from the National Guard, police, and the armed forces, including anti-tank and airborne units, amid fears of a migrant crisis and also due to a Russian military build-up on its borders. (RFE/RL) Anglophone Crisis Gunmen open fire at a school in Ekondo-Titi, Southwest Region, Cameroon, killing three children and a teacher. (AFP via Barron's) Syrian civil war Israel carries out airstrikes in Homs, Syria, killing two civilians and injuring six soldiers and another civilian. (Al Jazeera) Disasters and accidents English Channel migrant crossings November 2021 English Channel disaster Twenty-seven people drown after a dinghy carrying migrants sinks in the English Channel near Calais, France. (BBC News) Health and environment COVID-19 pandemic COVID-19 pandemic in Europe COVID-19 pandemic in the Czech Republic The Czech Republic reports a record 25,864 new cases of COVID-19 in the past 24 hours. (The Washington Post) COVID-19 pandemic in Hungary Hungary reports a record 12,637 new cases of COVID-19 in the past 24 hours, thereby bringing the nationwide total of confirmed cases to 1.045 million. (Thomson Reuters Foundation) COVID-19 pandemic in Italy The Italian government signs a decree that will ban people who are not vaccinated or who have not recovered from COVID-19 from entering indoor venues (not including workplaces) from December 6 until January 15 and will also extend the vaccine mandate to teachers, police, and the military beginning on December 15. It also imposes the use of the "green pass" to all types of public transport, including for people with negative COVID-19 tests. (Reuters) (ANSA) COVID-19 pandemic in the Netherlands The Netherlands reimposes mandatory 1.5 m (4 ft 11 in) social distancing measures in places where COVID passports are not required, amid an increase in the number of new COVID-19 cases. (Euronews) COVID-19 pandemic in Slovakia The Slovak government declares a 90-day state of emergency and will impose a two-week lockdown for the entire country beginning tomorrow, which will close all non-essential shops and restaurants and limit a person's movement to specific reasons only as the country reports a record 10,315 new cases of COVID-19 in the past 24 hours. (Politico.eu) European Union response to the COVID-19 pandemic The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control recommends that the booster dose of the COVID-19 vaccine should be given to all adults aged above 18 years six months after received their second dose, with priority given to those aged above 40 years. (The Wall Street Journal) COVID-19 pandemic in Asia COVID-19 pandemic in the Philippines, COVID-19 drug development It is announced that Merck & Co.'s antiviral drug molnupiravir will be available to Philippine patients after the Food and Drug Administration issued a compassionate special permit for the drug and an agreement was signed between the Office of the Vice President of the Philippines and a local health care provider. (Philippine Daily Inquirer) COVID-19 pandemic in Singapore, COVID-19 pandemic in Malaysia, Travel during the COVID-19 pandemic Singapore and Malaysia agree to the opening of a second quarantine-free vaccinated travel lane through the Johor–Singapore Causeway beginning on November 29 using designated bus lanes, which will mark the reopening of the land border between the two countries. (CNA) COVID-19 pandemic in South Korea South Korea reports a record 4,116 new cases of COVID-19 in the past 24 hours, thereby bringing the nationwide total of confirmed cases to 425,065. (CNA) COVID-19 pandemic in Canada, COVID-19 vaccination in Canada Health Canada grants full approval for the Janssen COVID-19 vaccine, making Canada the first country to fully approve the single-dose vaccine. (The Hill) International relations Ethiopia–Ireland relations The Irish Department of Foreign Affairs advises all Irish citizens to leave Ethiopia immediately, due to the ongoing conflict. (RTÉ) Law and crime 2015–present Polish constitutional crisis 2015 Polish Constitutional Court crisis In response to the ruling of the European Court of Human Rights in Xero Flor w Polsce sp. z o.o. v. Poland, which found that the business was denied the right to fair trial because a judge of the Tribunal was appointed illegally, the Constitutional Tribunal declares that it is not a court within the meaning of Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights and rules that the ECHR did not have the right to control the validity of appointments of the Tribunal's judges. (Reuters) Murder of Ahmaud Arbery The three men who killed Ahmaud Arbery in Brunswick, Georgia, United States, in February 2020 are found guilty of murder and aggravated assault. (BBC News) 2021 Solomon Islands unrest Protesters take to the streets in Honiara, Solomon Islands, calling for the resignation of incumbent prime minister Manasseh Sogavare. A building within the Parliament complex is set on fire as protesters engage in looting and arson while law enforcement personnel fire tear gas into crowds. (RNZ) (RNZ) Two allies of Russian opposition leader and activist Alexei Navalny leave Russia, becoming the latest people to do so after many of Navalny's allies left the country in September. The two people are identified as a woman who helped Navalny represent his organization and a lawyer who said that he was under pressure. (Reuters) Australia designates the Lebanese Shia militant group Hezbollah and the neo-Nazi paramilitary group The Base as terrorist organisations. (The Guardian) Politics and elections Sweden's Riksdag votes for Social Democrat leader Magdalena Andersson to become the first female prime minister of Sweden. However, Andersson resigned several hours later, after the Green Party quit the coalition. The Greens quit the coalition after the opposition budget was approved by the Riksdag. (Radio Sweden) (Reuters) Aftermath of the 2021 German federal election The Social Democratic Party of Germany, the Free Democratic Party of Germany, and Alliance 90/The Greens agree to a "traffic light coalition" to form the next government with Olaf Scholz of the SPD as the next Chancellor, succeeding Angela Merkel. The government will be formally elected by the Bundestag in early December. (Politico) November 23, 2021 (2021-11-23) (Tuesday) edit history watch Armed conflicts and attacks War in Donbas, Russo-Ukrainian War Ukraine warns of "combat preparedness" of separatist forces in eastern Ukraine as the Russian military presence on the border increases, warning of a potential new conflict. The separatists began mobilization of reservists yesterday. (Reuters) Arts and culture Artefacts from the Battle of Magdala taken in 1868 are returned to Ethiopia by the United Kingdom. (WION) Business and economy 2018–2021 Turkish currency and debt crisis The Turkish lira falls to an all-time low of 13.44 to the U.S. dollar. The crash was primarily caused by president Recep Tayyip Erdo?an's defense of the Central Bank's continued interest rate cuts amid soaring inflation. (CNBC) Disasters and accidents 2021 Bulgaria bus crash Forty-six people are killed and seven more are injured when a bus carrying North Macedonian tourists returning from Istanbul crashes and catches fire near Bosnek, Pernik Province, Bulgaria. (The New York Times) Two people are killed and 16 others are injured by an explosion at an EDePro rocket engine plant near Belgrade, Serbia. (7 News) Six people are dead and ten others are missing after the ferry they were travelling on capsizes in Kinniya, Sri Lanka. (ABC News Australia) Health and environment COVID-19 pandemic COVID-19 pandemic in Switzerland COVID-19 vaccination in Switzerland Swissmedic approves the extension of booster doses of the Pfizer–BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine to people over the age of 16 years as well as high-risk people over the age of 12 years. (The Times of India) COVID-19 drug development The Swiss government signs a deal to reserve 8,640 doses of Merck & Co.'s antiviral drug molnupiravir beginning in January. (Reuters) COVID-19 pandemic in Australia Australia surpasses 200,000 cases of COVID-19. (Yahoo! News) Law and crime 2021 Waukesha Christmas parade attack An 8-year-old boy, injured during the attack in Waukesha, Wisconsin, dies, bringing the death toll to six. Several of the sixty-two injured still remain in critical condition. (CNN) The suspect, 39-year-old Darrell Brooks, has been charged with six counts of first-degree intentional homicide, and the bail set at $5 million. (France 24) Colombian peace process United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres arrives in Colombia to commemorate the fifth year of the signing of the peace deal between the government of Colombia and the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia. (MercoPress) The Biden administration announces the delisting of the former FARC rebel group from the United States Department of State list of Foreign Terrorist Organizations where it had been listed since 1997. (Reuters) Sines v. Kessler A U.S. federal jury finds the organizers of 2017's Unite the Right rally, which includes white supremacists Richard B. Spencer, Jason Kessler, and Christopher Cantwell, liable for the violence that occurred and are ordered to pay US$26 million to nine individuals that suffered "physical and emotional damages". However, the jury was deadlocked on whether to convict on two federal conspiracy charges. (DW) (CNN) More November 2021 events... Time: 00:01 UTC|Day: 29 November ?November 2021? S M T W T F S 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 More November 2021 events... About this page Report a dispute • News about Wikipedia Ongoing events Disasters Climate crisis COVID-19 pandemic 2020–21 H5N8 outbreak 2021 Atlantic hurricane season 2021 Pacific typhoon season Madagascar food crisis Water crisis in Iran Yemeni famine 2021 La Palma eruption Economic 2020–2021 global chip shortage 2021 global supply chain crisis COVID-19 recession Lebanese liquidity crisis Pandora Papers leak Sri Lankan economic and food crisis Turkish currency and debt crisis United Kingdom natural gas supplier crisis Politics Belarus?European Union border crisis Brazilian protests Colombian tax reform protests Eswatini protests Haitian protests Indian farmers' protests Insulate Britain protests Jersey dispute Libyan peace process Malaysian political crisis Myanmar protests Nicaraguan protests Nigerian protests Persian Gulf crisis Peruvian crisis Russian election protests Solomon Islands unrest Tigrayan peace process Thai protests Tunisian political crisis United States racial unrest Venezuelan presidential crisis edit section Elections and referendums Recent November 14: Bulgaria, President (1st), National Assembly 14: Argentina, Chamber of Deputies, Senate 18: Tonga, Legislative Assembly 21: Bulgaria, President (2nd) 21: Chile, President (1st), Senate, Chamber of Deputies 28: Kyrgyzstan, Supreme Council Upcoming November 28: Honduras, President, National Congress December 4: The Gambia, President 12: New Caledonia, Independence referendum edit section Trials Recently concluded Belarus: Maria Kalesnikava France: Nicolas Sarkozy Myanmar: Danny Fenster Rwanda: Paul Rusesabagina United States: Murder of Ahmaud Arbery, Kyle Rittenhouse, Yanjun Xu, Lev Parnas, R. Kelly, Robert Durst Ongoing Armenia: Serzh Sargsyan Belarus: Sergei Tikhanovsky Canada: Raj Grewal France: Brussels ISIL Indonesia: Nurdin Abdullah Israel: Benjamin Netanyahu Italy: Matteo Salvini Kyrgyzstan: Almazbek Atambayev Malta: Yorgen Fenech Myanmar: Aung San Suu Kyi Philippines: Leila de Lima Sudan: Omar al-Bashir United States: Elizabeth Holmes Upcoming Indonesia: Azis Syamsuddin, Alex Noerdin Kosovo: Hashim Thaçi, Kadri Veseli Nigeria: Nnamdi Kanu United States: Allen Weisselberg, Ghislaine Maxwell, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, Jussie Smollett Vatican City: Giovanni Angelo Becciu ICC: Ali Kushayb edit section Sport Association football 2021–22 UEFA Europa League 2021–22 UEFA Champions league 2021–22 Premier League 2021–22 Bundesliga 2021–22 Serie A 2021–22 La Liga 2022 FIFA World Cup qualification 2020–21 UEFA Nations League 2021 Campeonato Brasileiro Série A 2021 MLS Cup Playoffs American football 2021 NCAA Division I FBS football season 2021 NCAA Division I FCS football season 2021 NFL season Basketball 2021–22 NBA season 2021-22 NCAA Division I Men's Basketball Season 2021-22 NCAA Division I Women's Basketball Season Cricket 2021–23 ICC World Test Championship 2020–23 ICC Cricket World Cup Super League 2019–23 ICC Cricket World Cup League 2 2019–22 ICC Cricket World Cup Challenge League Canadian football 2021 CFL season Golf 2020 PGA Tour Champions 2021 Ladies European Tour 2021–22 PGA Tour Ice hockey 2021–22 NHL season 2021–22 IIHF Continental Cup Motorsport 2021 Formula One Championship 2021 Supercars Championship Rugby union 2021–22 Premiership Rugby 2021–22 United Rugby Championship 2021–22 Top 14 2021 Super Rugby season Tennis 2021 ATP Tour 2020–21 Davis Cup (Finals) Other sports seasons 2021–22 International cricket season 2021–22 snooker season 2021–22 curling season More details – current sports events edit section Recent deaths November 28: Justo Gallego Martínez 28: Norodom Ranariddh 27: Almudena Grandes 26: Stephen Sondheim 25: Oleksandr Omelchenko 23: Bill Virdon 23: James Fitz-Allen Mitchell 23: Chun Doo-hwan 22: Doug Jones 21: Antonio Escohotado 19: Ian Fishback 18: Peter Buck 18: Mick Rock 18: Ardeshir Zahedi 17: Dave Frishberg 17: Art LaFleur 17: Young Dolph 16: Ri Yong-suk 15: Julio Lugo 15: Clarissa Eden 15: Daulet Sembaev 14: Etel Adnan 14: W. Sterling Cary 13: Sam Huff 13: Wilbur Smith 12: Dave Hickey 12: Matthew Festing 11: F. W. de Klerk 11: Glen de Vries 11: Graeme Edge 11: Winter 10: Jun Hong Lu 9: Max Cleland 9: Austin Currie 8: Pedro Feliciano 8: Seán FitzPatrick 8: Mahlagha Mallah 8: Abdul Wahab Dalimunthe 7: Dean Stockwell 6: Angelo Mosca 6: Shawn Rhoden 6: Cissé Mariam Kaïdama Sidibé 6: Muamer Zukorli? 6: Yukhym Zvyahilsky 5: Marília Mendonça 4: Ruth Ann Minner 4: Lionel Blair 3: Georgie Dann 2: Sabah Fakhri 1: Aaron Beck October 31: Catherine Tizard 30: Jerry Remy 30: Alan Davidson 30: Bert Newton 29: Clément Mouamba 29: José Antonio González edit section Ongoing conflicts Africa Angola Cabinda War Cameroon Anglophone Crisis Central African Republic Civil War Chad Insurgency in Northern Chad Democratic Republic of the Congo Kivu conflict Allied Democratic Forces insurgency Ituri conflict Lord's Resistance Army insurgency Kamwina Nsapu rebellion Ethiopia Tigray War (spillover) Oromo conflict Ethiopia and Sudan Sudanese–Ethiopian clashes Ghana Western Togoland Rebellion Maghreb and Sahel regions Maghreb insurgency Mali Mali War Mozambique Insurgency in Cabo Delgado Nigeria Boko Haram insurgency (incl. Lake Chad region) Communal conflicts in Nigeria Senegal Casamance conflict Somalia Civil war South Sudan Ethnic violence in South Sudan Sudan War in Darfur South Kordofan conflict Sudanese nomadic conflicts (incl. South Sudan) Tunisia ISIL insurgency in Tunisia Western Sahara Western Sahara conflict 2020–2021 Western Saharan clashes Americas Colombia Colombian conflict Mexico Mexican drug war Peru Internal conflict in Peru Paraguay Insurgency in Paraguay Asia-Pacific Afghanistan Panjshir conflict Islamic State–Taliban conflict India Insurgency in Northeast India Assam separatist movements Insurgency in Manipur Ethnic conflict in Nagaland Khalistan movement Naxalite–Maoist insurgency India and Pakistan Kashmir conflict Indonesia, Malaysia and the Philippines Moro conflict Cross border attacks in Sabah Indonesia Papua conflict Myanmar Internal conflict in Myanmar Kachin conflict Karen conflict Rohingya conflict Pakistan Insurgency in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Insurgency in Balochistan Philippines Communist rebellion Philippine drug war Thailand South Thailand insurgency Europe Armenia and Azerbaijan Nagorno-Karabakh conflict Ukraine War in Donbas Russo-Ukrainian War Ireland and the UK Dissident Irish republican campaign Turkey Kurdish–Turkish conflict Global War on terror Middle East Egypt Sinai insurgency Iran and the Persian Gulf Iran–Israel proxy conflict Iran–Saudi Arabia proxy conflict Sistan and Baluchestan insurgency Arab separatism in Khuzestan Kurdish separatism in Iran Iraq Iraqi conflict American-led intervention in Iraq Iranian intervention in Iraq Iraq and Syria (map) International military intervention against ISIL Israel and Gaza Israel and Syria Israeli-Syrian border conflict Israeli-Syrian ceasefire line incidents Syria American-led intervention in Syria Russian military intervention in the Syrian civil war Turkish occupation of northern Syria Yemen and Saudi Arabia Yemeni Civil War Saudi Arabian-led intervention in Yemen Houthi–Saudi Arabian conflict Further information: List of ongoing armed conflicts edit section 2021 events and developments by topic Arts Architecture – Animation – Anime – Comics – Film (Horror, Science fiction) – Home video – Literature – Music (Classical, Country, Hip hop, Latin, Metal, Rock, UK, US) – Radio – Television (UK, US, Italy, Scotland) – Video games Politics and government Elections – International leaders – Sovereign states – Sovereign state leaders – Territorial governors Science and technology Archaeology – Biotechnology – Computing – Palaeontology – Quantum computing and communication – Senescence research – Sustainable energy research – Space/Astronomy – Spaceflight Environment and environmental sciences Birding/Ornithology – Climate change Transportation Aviation – Rail transport By place Afghanistan – Albania – Algeria – Andorra – Angola – Antarctica – Argentina – Armenia – Australia – Austria – Azerbaijan – Bangladesh – The Bahamas – Bahrain – Barbados – Belarus – Belgium – Benin – Bhutan – Bolivia – Bosnia and Herzegovina – Botswana – Brazil – Bulgaria – Burkina Faso – Burundi – Cambodia – Cameroon – Canada – Cape Verde – Central African Republic – Chad – Chile – China – Colombia – Costa Rica – Comoros – Croatia – Cuba – Cyprus – Czech Republic – Denmark – Ecuador – Egypt – El Salvador – Eritrea – Estonia – Ethiopia – European Union – Eswatini – Fiji – Finland – France – Gabon – Georgia – Germany – Ghana – Greece – Guatemala – Guinea – Guinea-Bissau – Guyana – Haiti – Honduras – Hong Kong – Hungary – Iceland – India – Indonesia – Iran – Iraq – Ireland – Israel – Italy – Ivory Coast – Japan – Jordan – Kazakhstan – Kenya – Kiribati – Kosovo – Kuwait – Kyrgyzstan – Laos – Latvia – Lebanon – Lesotho – Liberia – Libya – Lithuania – Luxembourg – Macau – Madagascar – Marshall Islands – Malawi – Malaysia – Mali – Malta – Mauritania – Mexico – Micronesia – Moldova – Mongolia – Montenegro – Morocco – Mozambique – Myanmar – Nauru – Namibia – Nepal – Netherlands – New Zealand – Nicaragua – Niger – Nigeria – North Korea – North Macedonia – Norway – Oman – Pakistan – Palau – Palestine – Panama – Papua New Guinea – Paraguay – Peru – Philippines – Poland – Portugal – Qatar – Romania – Russia – Rwanda – Samoa – Saudi Arabia – Senegal – Serbia – Seychelles – Singapore – Slovakia – Slovenia – Somalia – South Africa – Solomon Islands – South Korea – South Sudan – Spain – Sri Lanka – Sudan – Sweden – Switzerland – Syria – Taiwan – Tajikistan – Tanzania – Thailand – Togo – Tonga – Tunisia – Turkey – Turkmenistan – Tuvalu – Uganda – Ukraine – United Arab Emirates – United Kingdom – United States – Uruguay – Uzbekistan – Vanuatu – Venezuela – Vietnam – Yemen – Zambia – Zimbabwe Establishments and disestablishments categories Establishments – Disestablishments Works and introductions categories Works – Introductions – Works entering the public domain Wikimedia Commons has media related to 2021. ...more edit section v t e Events by month 2021 January February March April May June July August September October November 2020 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2019 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2018 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2017 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2016 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2015 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2014 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2013 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2012 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2011 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2010 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2009 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2008 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2007 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2006 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2005 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2004 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2003 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2002 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2001 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2000 January February March April May June July August September October November December 1999 January February March April May June July August September October November December 1998 January February March April May June July August September October November December 1997 January February March April May June July August September October November December 1996 January February March April May June July August September October November December 1995 January February March April May June July August September October November December 1994 January February March April May June July August September October November December Portal:Current events Calendars Content listings Types Overviews Outlines Lists Portals Glossaries Categories Indices Featured content Good articles Spoken articles Topics Current events Reference Culture Geography Health History Mathematics Nature People Philosophy Religion Society Technology Places, people and times Academic disciplines Anniversaries today Countries and territories Timelines decades, centuries, and millennia Indices A–Z index Categories Dewey Decimal classes Library of Congress Classification Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events&oldid=1054047874" Categories: All portals 2021 by day Current events portal 2021 Current events History portals Hidden categories: Wikipedia pages protected against vandalism Portals with triaged subpages from October 2020 All portals with triaged subpages Portals with no named maintainer Portals with short description Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Portal Talk Variants expanded collapsed Views Read View source View history More expanded collapsed Search Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version Languages Ænglisc ??????? ??????? Az?rbaycanca ?????? ????? Banjar Bân-lâm-gú ????????? ?????????? ??????? Bikol Central Català ??????? Cebuano ?eština Dansk ?????? ???????? ?????? Español Esperanto Estremeñu Euskara E?egbe ????? Føroyskt Français Gaeilge Gaelg ?? ??????? ???/Hak-kâ-ngî ??? ??????? Hrvatski Bahasa Indonesia Interlingua ???? IsiZulu Íslenska Kapampangan ??????? ??????? Kurdî Ladino Latina Lëtzebuergesch Lietuvi? Li Niha Limburgs Magyar ?????? ?????? ????? ???? ???????? Bahasa Melayu Minangkabau ?????? ?????????? Dorerin Naoero Nederlands ?????? ????? ???? ??? Napulitano ??????? Occitan O?zbekcha/??????? ?????? ????????? Piemontèis Polski Português Român? ??????? Scots Shqip Sicilianu ????? ???? Sloven?ina Soomaaliga ????? ?????? / srpski Srpskohrvatski / ?????????????? Sunda Suomi Svenska Tagalog ????? ???????/tatarça ??? ?????? ??? ?????????? ???? Vepsän kel’ Ti?ng Vi?t Volapük Walon ?? ?? ?????? Yorùbá ?? Zeêuws ?? Dagbanli Edit links This page was last edited on 7 November 2021, at 19:18 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement