Operation Sutton - Wikipedia
Operation Sutton - Wikipedia Operation Sutton From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Operation Sutton Date 21–23 May 1982 Location San Carlos Water, Falkland Islands Result British victory Belligerents United Kingdom Argentina Commanders and leaders Sandy Woodward Julian Thompson Michael Clapp Ernesto Horacio Crespo Lt. Esteban Strength 2 destroyers 6 frigates Amphibious Task Force Sea Harrier CAPs 50-60 fighters 62 ground troops Casualties and losses 3 killed 1 captured 2 helicopters 1 RAF Harrier GR3 6 killed 8 captured v t e Falklands War Argentine invasion South Georgia Occupation Paraquet Black Buck Belgrano Sobral Sheffield Pebble Island Mikado Sutton San Carlos Ardent Seal Cove Antelope Atlantic Conveyor Coventry Goose Green Mount Kent Top Malo House Bluff Cove Many Branch Point Mount Harriet Two Sisters Glamorgan Sir Galahad Mount Longdon Wireless Ridge Mount Tumbledown Port Stanley Thule & South Sandwich Islands Operation Sutton was the code name for the British landings on the shores of San Carlos Water, at Ajax Bay and Port San Carlos, near San Carlos on East Falkland. Landings[edit] During the night, 3 Commando Brigade along with attached units of the Parachute Regiment were landed from the liner SS Canberra and the LPD HMS Fearless. There was very limited enemy resistance on the ground. The Argentine Army force on site was a section from the 25th Infantry Regiment named Combat Team Güemes (Spanish: Equipo de Combate Güemes), or EC Güemes, located at Fanning Head.[1] After the British fleet was spotted at 02:50, EC Güemes opened fire with 81mm mortars and two 105mm recoilless rifles. The British warships replied with naval gunfire, and a 25-man SBS team also returned fire. During the firefight, two British helicopters, a Sea King and a Gazelle, passed overhead, and the Argentine troops fired at them with machine guns. The Gazelle's pilot, Sergeant Andrew Evans - RM, was hit and fatally injured, but he managed to crash-land the aircraft into the sea. Evans and the other crewman, Sergeant Edward Candlish, were thrown out of the aircraft. Argentine troops shot at them for about 15 minutes as they struggled in the water, ignoring orders from their commanding officer to ceasefire. When the firing ceased, Candlish managed to drag Evans to shore, where he died. Minutes later, a second British Gazelle helicopter, following the same route as the first, was hit by small arms fire from the Argentine platoon and shot down, killing the crew, Lt. Ken Francis and L/Cpl. Pat Giffin.[2] The Argentinians eventually retreated from Fanning Head, abandoning their communications equipment. At least eight members of another Argentinian platoon who fled the scene were left behind and captured by the British. Argentine commandos of the 601 Commando Company shot down a GR.3 Harrier on a reconnaissance mission on Port Howard with a Blowpipe missile. The pilot, Flight Lieutenant Glover, bailed out, breaking his arm and collar bone in the process. He was taken prisoner by Argentine soldiers shortly afterward, and flown to a military hospital in Comodoro Rivadavia, Argentina. Six Argentine pilots were killed during the operation.[3][4] The invasion, part of the overall Operation Corporate, sparked a strong reply from the Argentine Air Force and Argentine Naval Aviation and led to the Battle of San Carlos.[5] References[edit] ^ Ruiz Moreno (h) 2016, p. 133. ^ "Archived copy". Archived from the original on 5 June 2013. Retrieved 26 April 2013.CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link) ^ "British Aircraft Lost 22nd April - 12th June 1982" Naval-History.net ^ Ruiz Moreno (h) 2016, pp. 147–148. ^ The falkland Islands San Carlos landings at Think defence.co.uk Sources[edit] Ruiz Moreno (h), Isidoro J. (2016) [1986]. Comandos en acción (in Spanish) (2nd ed.). Buenos Aires: Claridad. ISBN 978-950-620-312-2. v t e Falklands War Timeline Background Causes Invasion of the Falklands Invasion of South Georgia Occupation Total Exclusion Zone Surrender Battles San Carlos Goose Green Many Branch Point Mount Harriet Mount Longdon Mount Tumbledown Top Malo House Two Sisters Wireless Ridge Seal Cove Mount Kent Bluff Cove Operations Algeciras Black Buck Corporate Keyhole Paraquet Sutton Mikado Forces Argentine: Air Ground Naval British: Air Ground Naval Falkland Islands Defence Force Ships Argentine: ARA General Belgrano ARA Alférez Sobral British: HMS Sheffield HMS Antelope HMS Ardent HMS Arrow HMS Coventry HMS Glamorgan RFA Sir Galahad SS Atlantic Conveyor Related Aftermath Argentine cemetery British cemetery British logistics Cultural impact Land mines Memorial Yomp Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Operation_Sutton&oldid=1044062489" Categories: Conflicts in 1982 Military operations of the Falklands War British Army in the Falklands War Army Air Corps (United Kingdom) Battles post-1945 Amphibious operations May 1982 events in South America Amphibious operations involving the United Kingdom Hidden categories: CS1 maint: archived copy as title Use dmy dates from February 2015 CS1 Spanish-language sources (es) Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants expanded collapsed Views Read Edit View history More expanded collapsed Search Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version Languages Français Italiano ??????? Edit links This page was last edited on 13 September 2021, at 10:58 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement