Yomp - Wikipedia
Yomp - Wikipedia Yomp From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search For other uses, see Yomp (disambiguation). Heading into Stanley June 1982, The "Yomper", an iconic image of the Falklands War. Yomp is Royal Marines slang describing a long-distance loaded march carrying full kit. It was popularized by journalistic coverage in 1982 during the Falklands War. The origin of the word is unclear, and there is no evidence to suggest that it derives originally from an acronym. Various backronymic definitions have however been proposed, including “young officers marching pace”, "your own marching pace" and a connection with the term yump used in rally-driving in the sense of "to leave the ground when taking a crest at speed", apparently a Scandinavian pronunciation of jump.[1] The most famous yomp of recent times was during the 1982 Falklands War. After disembarking from ships at San Carlos on East Falkland, on 21 May 1982, Royal Marines and members of the Parachute Regiment yomped (and tabbed) with their equipment across the islands, covering 56 miles (90 km)[2] in three days carrying 80-pound (36 kg)[3] loads. They were supposed to be transported by helicopters, but after the Atlantic Conveyor, which carried the helicopters, was sunk by Argentinian Exocet missiles on 25 May, the soldiers had to march across the island. Contents 1 Synonyms 2 The Yomper 3 In popular culture 3.1 In games 3.2 In literature 4 See also 5 References Synonyms[edit] British Army slang for the same concept is "tab", of equally unknown origin. (One suggestion would interpret it as an acronym of Tactical Advance to Battle.[4]) US Military slang for this concept is to "ruck" (from the "rucksack" being carried) or to "hump" from the phrase "humping a pack".[citation needed] The Yomper[edit] The image of "the Yomper" became one of the iconic images of the Falklands War. The original photograph was taken by Petty Officer Peter Holdgate, Commando Forces Photographer, whilst working as part of the Commando Forces News Team. After landing with 40 Commando at San Carlos, Holdgate accompanied British forces across the Falklands War zone taking hundreds of photographs as the Royal Marines proceeded along the Moody Brook track towards Stanley.[5] "The Yomper", Royal Marines Museum When news of the surrender of Argentine forces was received, Marine Trev Gillingham produced a small Union bunting flag from his bergen ("proffed" (as in the 'acquisition of military resources') from SS Canberra's bunting locker). Marine Gillingham first tied the flag to Corporal Robinson's radio aerial, which eventually blew off. It was then fixed with masking tape to the radio aerial of Corporal Robinson (who was the last man in the patrol). The photograph itself was entirely spontaneous and not staged. The original Union Flag remains in Corporal Robinson's possession. The image was used as the inspiration of a statue that was unveiled by Margaret Thatcher on 8 July 1992 on the 10th anniversary of the conflict.[6] It now adorns the entrance to the Royal Marines Museum in Southsea. In popular culture[edit] In games[edit] Virgin Games, Inc. published a computer game called Yomp (1983) shortly after the Falklands conflict.[7] In literature[edit] In Raynor Winn's "The Salt Path" (2018) "yompers" are encountered during the course of walking "the 630 miles of the sea-swept South West Coast Path, from Somerset to Dorset" in England.[8] In Charlie Higson's second novel in The Enemy series, titled The Dead (2010), Bam tells Greg, "I grew up in the country, you see, always out yomping 'round the fields."[9] In Robert Westall's novel Urn Burial (1987), the main character Ralph wonders, “if they’d felt as lonely as this, yomping to Port Stanley...”[10] See also[edit] Look up yomp in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Dartmoor Yomp Loaded march References[edit] ^ Ayto, John (2006). Movers And Shakers: A Chronology of Words That Shaped Our Age. Oxford University Press. p. 225. ^ Freedman, Lawrence (1990). "The Bridgehead and Beyond". Signals of War, the Falklands Conflict of 1982. London: Faber and Faber: Chapter 21. ISBN 978-0-571-14116-6. "There were two considerations. First, the distance between Stanley and San Carlos was some 56 miles and given the problems posed by the terrain it would take at least eight days to cover the ground. Movement would be 'under constant enemy fire from the air, in an area without cover, wood, drinking water or means of subsistence'. When his men arrived, worn out by the long trek, they would have to go into immediate action against an enemy well prepared and supported by field artillery." ^ Bernard Fitzsimons (Editor) (1987). Modern Land Combat. Salamander Books Ltd. ISBN 978-1-85501-165-6.CS1 maint: extra text: authors list (link) ^ "TAB". Acronym Finder. ^ "Memorials and Monuments in the Royal Marines Museum, Portsmouth (The Yomper)" (ISO-8859-1). 20 December 2006. ^ "Memorials and Monuments in the Royal Marines Museum, Portsmouth (The Yomper)" (ISO-8859-1). 20 December 2006. ^ "Yomp - World of Spectrum". Sinclair Infoseek. Retrieved February 13, 2019. ^ Winn, Raynor (22 March 2018). The Salt Path. ISBN 978-0241349649. ^ Higson, Charlie (2010). The Dead. Puffin Books. p. 5 of 6, Chapter 25. ^ Westall, Robert (1987). Urn Burial. Mammoth. p. 179 of 248. v t e Falklands War Timeline Background Causes Invasion of the Falklands Invasion of South Georgia Occupation Total Exclusion Zone Surrender Battles San Carlos Goose Green Many Branch Point Mount Harriet Mount Longdon Mount Tumbledown Top Malo House Two Sisters Wireless Ridge Seal Cove Mount Kent Bluff Cove Operations Algeciras Black Buck Corporate Keyhole Paraquet Sutton Mikado Forces Argentine: Air Ground Naval British: Air Ground Naval Falkland Islands Defence Force Ships Argentine: ARA General Belgrano ARA Alférez Sobral British: HMS Sheffield HMS Antelope HMS Ardent HMS Arrow HMS Coventry HMS Glamorgan RFA Sir Galahad SS Atlantic Conveyor Related Aftermath Argentine cemetery British cemetery British logistics Cultural impact Land mines Memorial Yomp Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Yomp&oldid=1057650566" Categories: Royal Marines Falklands War Military slang and jargon Hidden categories: CS1 maint: extra text: authors list All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from September 2014 Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants expanded collapsed Views Read Edit View history More expanded collapsed Search Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version Languages Dansk Français Türkçe Edit links This page was last edited on 28 November 2021, at 21:33 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement