VP Engineering at sustainable start-up (m/f/x) - Munich/New York/Remote at FINN - Stack Overflow
VP Engineering at sustainable start-up (m/f/x) - Munich/New York/Remote at FINN  - Stack Overflow Stack Overflow About Products For Teams Stack Overflow Public questions & answers Stack Overflow for Teams Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers Jobs Programming & related technical career opportunities Talent Recruit tech talent & build your employer brand Advertising Reach developers & technologists worldwide About the company Loading… Log in Sign up current community Stack Overflow help chat Meta Stack Overflow your communities Sign up or log in to customize your list. more stack exchange communities company blog Home Public Questions Tags Users Collectives Explore Collectives Find a Job Jobs Companies Teams Stack Overflow for Teams – Collaborate and share knowledge with a private group. Create a free Team What is Teams? Teams Create free Team Collectives on Stack Overflow Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most. Learn more Teams Q&A for work Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search. Learn more Jobs Companies Why Jobs? Applications Developer Story You’ve submitted an application. View all your job applications in one central place. VP Engineering at sustainable start-up (m/f/x) - Munich/New York/Remote FINN – München, Germany €100k - 125k | Equity Remote Visa sponsor Paid relocation Save Save Share via email Share via Twitter Share via Facebook Report Dismiss Overview Company Developer Culture More Jobs React to this job: 6 3 0 Posted 5 days ago About this job Job type: Full-time Experience level: Lead, Manager Industry: Agile Software Development, Automotive, Mobility Company size: 51-200 people Company type: VC Funded Remote details Office Location: München, Germany. Employees can also work full time from this office. Visa Sponsorship: Yes Relocation Assistance: Yes Technologies pythonnode.jsgojavascriptreactjs Job description Your Role As a member of the engineering management team and reporting to the CTO, the VP Engineering will lead up to 7 engineering teams. You ensure a vision and technical strategy together with your Tech Leads including best-of-class engineering recruitment and personal development of every single engineer. Why FINN? The role is based in Munich, Germany. For candidates relocating to Munich, we provide full visa support. With massive growth potential, FINN allows you to quickly develop and succeed in a highly motivating startup environment with ambitious challenges in cross-functional teams. Excellent fixed salary, significant virtual equity share of the company, along with a yearly personal development budget of 3.000€. Our team is known for loads of fun and we have and frequent team events to strengthen our connection. At FINN you have complete autonomy over your choice of equipment, accessories, editors, tools, and technology. Do you want to drive your own car with FINN? Get one with our employee discount program. Your Responsibilities Lead a world-class engineering team: You are responsible to build and lead your team. You will go the extra mile to coach and develop the team members on a daily basis. Enable the growth of FINN: Together with your cross-functional engineering teams, you ship new features for our cloud platform. Thereby, you actively participate in delivering the best software possible for our customers and business units. Strive for excellence: Strive to deliver the best possible user experience and to follow engineering best practices. Build it, run it: Build features with a ‘build it, run it’ mindset and be responsible for testing, deploying, and monitoring your code. We believe in Serverless! Contribution to FINN's overall strategy: As a part of the executive team you contribute to FINN's overall strategic planning to support its future growth. Your Profile Graduated top of your class with a Master’s degree in computer science or equivalent from a top-tier university. 3+ years of experience in a multi-team lead role, with more than 6 direct reports (30+ indirect reports). Proven track record with 5+ years of software engineering experience in larger projects preferably B2B, B2C, or SaaS products. Profound knowledge of React, Python, NodeJS or Go. Passion for shipping CI/CD. Fluency in English. Interested in Joining Our Fast Growing Startup? Please upload your CV and transcripts online. Andreas Wixler and Henriette Brune are looking forward to your application! Equal Opportunities for Everyone FINN is an equal opportunity employer. We embrace and celebrate diversity and are committed to creating an inclusive environment for all employees. About the company FINN FINN is your monthly car subscription with everything but gas included Follow your favorite companies By selecting follow, you are opting in to receive an email digest from the companies you follow. Don't worry, your information isn't shared. Follow Follow your favorite companies By selecting follow, you are opting in to receive an email digest from the companies you follow. Don't worry, your information isn't shared. Follow At finn we create software that will manage thousands of vehicles and customers on a daily basis. You have the chance to join this team early on and work independently on our product. If your coding skills are known around the globe, and you love to contribute your ideas and engineering skills to a growing company in the heart of Munich then apply now. Benefits Choose your work equipment, accessories, editors and tools Located in heart of Munich (Prinzregentenplatz) We love and live an agile work environment We live a culture of trust and personal responsibility You build it, you run it Excellent fixed salary 1,500€ yearly personal development budget Weekly tech talks and knowledge sessions Visa support for a smooth relocation process Significant virtual equity share of the company. Joel Test Source control One-step build Daily builds Bug database Bugs fixed before writing new code Up-to-date schedule Specs Quiet working conditions Best tools that money can buy Testers Code screening Hallway usability testing People Maximilian Wühr 1 Emin Bugra Saral Senior Software Engineer 3.7k 1 15 24 Ishtiaque Zafar Senior Software Developer at Fission Labs, India 125 2 11 Mohammed Alokshiya Backend Software Engineer 603 6 12 Learn more about FINN More jobs at FINN Okay, you won’t see this job anymore. Undo (Senior) Frontend Engineer at sustainable start-up (m/f/x) - Munich or Remote FINN • München, Germany javascriptreactjsnode.jstypescriptredux 5d ago €60k–80k Equity Remote Visa sponsor Paid relocation Okay, you won’t see this job anymore. Undo (Senior) Backend Engineer at sustainable start-up (m/f/x) - Munich or Remote FINN • München, Germany serverlessamazon-web-servicespythonnode.jsgo 5d ago €60k–80k Equity Remote Visa sponsor Paid relocation Okay, you won’t see this job anymore. Undo Tech Lead Engineering at sustainable start-up (m/f/x) - Munich/New York/Remote FINN • München, Germany pythontypescriptnode.jsgoserverless 5d ago €100k–125k Equity Remote Visa sponsor Paid relocation Okay, you won’t see this job anymore. Undo Data Engineer at sustainable start-up (m/f/x) - Munich FINN • München, Germany pythonsqlgoogle-bigqueryfivetran 5d ago Equity Visa sponsor Paid relocation Want to get notified about new jobs at FINN? Create a company alert Your job search status has been updated. Are you looking for a job? When you create a Developer Story, we’ll accelerate your matches and get you in front of employers ASAP. Create a Developer Story VP Engineering at sustainable start-up (m/f/x) - Munich/New York/Remote at FINN Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Help Mobile Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Service Contact Us Cookie Settings Cookie Policy Stack Exchange Network Technology Culture & recreation Life & arts Science Professional Business API Data Blog Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram site design / logo © 2021 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa. rev 2021.11.30.40849 Stack Overflow works best with JavaScript enabled Your privacy By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy. Accept all cookies Customize settings