Software Developer (Python) at Picnic - Stack Overflow
Software Developer (Python) at Picnic  - Stack Overflow Stack Overflow About Products For Teams Stack Overflow Public questions & answers Stack Overflow for Teams Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers Jobs Programming & related technical career opportunities Talent Recruit tech talent & build your employer brand Advertising Reach developers & technologists worldwide About the company Loading… Log in Sign up current community Stack Overflow help chat Meta Stack Overflow your communities Sign up or log in to customize your list. more stack exchange communities company blog Home Public Questions Tags Users Collectives Explore Collectives Find a Job Jobs Companies Teams Stack Overflow for Teams – Collaborate and share knowledge with a private group. Create a free Team What is Teams? Teams Create free Team Collectives on Stack Overflow Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most. Learn more Teams Q&A for work Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search. Learn more Jobs Companies Why Jobs? Applications Developer Story You’ve submitted an application. View all your job applications in one central place. Software Developer (Python) Picnic – Amsterdam, Netherlands Visa sponsor Paid relocation Save Save Share via email Share via Twitter Share via Facebook Report Dismiss Overview Company Developer Culture More Jobs React to this job: 26 12 20 Posted 7 days ago About this job Job type: Full-time Experience level: Junior, Mid-Level, Senior Role: DevOps Industry: E-Commerce, Information Technology, Logistics and Supply Chain Company size: 5k-10k people Company type: Private Technologies pythonpostgresqldockeramazon-web-serviceskubernetes Job description Picnic is an app-only supermarket. We’re data driven with software at our core. Our world-class developers write immaculate code to support the world’s fastest growing supermarket. We’re on a quest for like-minded people to be part of the future of digital grocery shopping. Where you fit in Our developers are highly involved and essential to each part of our company. From route planning, scaling our customers’ analytics to handle enormous chunks of data, to calculating how many bananas we should have in our warehouse on a Thursday – our teams write, plan, and predict. While Java is the predominant language in our infrastructure, our ecosystem is diversifying and many software projects are fully written in Python. As one of our Python developers, you grab ownership of projects, grow, and work collaboratively with your colleagues. You design, implement, test, evolve, and evaluate the nuts and bolts of our operations while offering a creative and analytical approach. You feel at home writing software libraries and applications and display an intricate understanding of how each line of code fits into a business plan. At Picnic your skills will be complemented with the latest tech and our diverse projects will keep you challenged and motivated. From designing, developing, and testing new user-facing features, to optimizing supply chain systems and improving the scalability and security of our platform: you’ll be managing individual project priorities, deadlines, and deliverables, while finding yourself fully immersed in an engaging startup culture. We don’t hide what we do. Instead, we open-source with the community that helped us grow, and talk about software in our engineering blog. Check for yourself, on https://picnic.tech and https://blog.picnic.nl. What challenges await you Design, develop, and test software for our platform Create high-quality code that is scalable, reliable and reusable Help our analysts with any engineering questions or challenges they may face Develop new features and improve the scalability and security of our Python systems Take ownership of projects and manage their entire life cycles. Who you are You have a degree in Computer Science, Software Engineering, or equivalent, or relevant experience You have outstanding Python skills (with at least 2 years of experience) You have experience with Docker You have a good understanding of relational databases and SQL You know when to use NoSQL solutions like MongoDB, ElasticSearch, and RabbitMQ You feel comfortable building microservices You know your way around software versioning (git), test suites, technical documentation, and continuous integration and deployment ...and you don't mind collecting bonus points with your cloud and Kubernetes skills Technologies you'll use Python 3.8/3.9 Many Python libraries across various domains PostgreSQL, MongoDB, Snowflake, RabbitMQ AWS, Docker, Kubernetes, Travis CI Hungry for more? Check out https://stackshare.io/picnic-technologies for an overview of our tech stack. Picnic perks Located in Amsterdam, our fun-filled office is the best place for you to focus on your Picnic projects. Equipped with your favorite hardware and surrounded by like-minded people, you’ll grow professionally and personally, while enjoying the startup life along the way. We like to keep our 40-hour work-week flexible around here. Our tech team consists of 15 product teams, which handle tons of innovative projects. Sharing, mentoring and keeping up to date is a must at Picnic: Meetups, webinars, Lunch & Learn sessions, and our very own Tech academy make sure that’s taken care of. Your soft skills will get some attention as well, with tailored training and courses. Our salaries are market competitive and our pension program will put your mind at ease. Relocation package? Sure! If you join Picnic from abroad, we’ll cover your trip to Amsterdam, sponsor your Visa, and offer you a month of accommodation while you settle in. If you are joining us from a country that doesn’t allow traveling to the Netherlands just yet due to Covid-19, there's a chance that your onboarding could take place remotely. We had lots of new team members starting their Picnic-journey remotely already, you can have a peek at how it's going here. What are you waiting for? Get in touch! And no worries, the whole process is currently fully remote, to keep everyone safe and healthy. About the company Picnic We’re revolutionizing the way people buy groceries with cutting-edge technology, efficient planning, and our iconic electric vehicles. Follow your favorite companies By selecting follow, you are opting in to receive an email digest from the companies you follow. Don't worry, your information isn't shared. Follow Follow your favorite companies By selecting follow, you are opting in to receive an email digest from the companies you follow. Don't worry, your information isn't shared. Follow Picnic is the world’s fastest growing online supermarket with a unique business model and a highly engaged customer base. Our mission is to make grocery shopping simple, fun, and affordable for everyone. Beyond that, we love working towards a greener future by using cutting-edge warehouse technologies and running a 100% electrical fleet of delivery vans. ? Curious for more? Check this out: ? Life is a Picnic Blog ? Picnic's Tech Blog ? Official careers' page Benefits International and diverse colleagues Startup environment where everything you do matters Informal dress code 25 days of paid leave plus an average of 6 public holidays Work with the latest tech stack Conferences, trainings, and Dutch lessons included Daily, healthy lunches, snacks, fresh coffee, and Friday drinks Great compensation package (including relocation support) Plenty of cool stuff to fill your social calendar Take care of your future self with our pension plan People Stephan202 Tech Lead at Picnic 57k 13 123 129 Daniel Gebler CTO at Picnic 1 1 dnedev Lead Data Engineer at Booking.com 142 5 Max Sumrall Software Engineer 1 1 Learn more about Picnic More jobs at Picnic Okay, you won’t see this job anymore. Undo Junior Java Developer Picnic • Amsterdam, Netherlands java-11springelasticsearchpostgresqlrx-java 7d ago Visa sponsor Paid relocation Okay, you won’t see this job anymore. Undo React Native Engineer Picnic • Amsterdam, Netherlands react-nativegitjavascripttypescripthigh-traffic 7d ago Visa sponsor Paid relocation Okay, you won’t see this job anymore. Undo Infrastructure Engineer Picnic • Amsterdam, Netherlands dockeramazon-web-servicescloudformationkubernetespythonsysadmin 7d ago Visa sponsor Paid relocation Okay, you won’t see this job anymore. Undo Principal Java Engineer Picnic • Amsterdam, Netherlands javaspringmongodbpythonamazon-web-services 7d ago Visa sponsor Paid relocation Want to get notified about new jobs at Picnic? Create a company alert Your job search status has been updated. Are you looking for a job? When you create a Developer Story, we’ll accelerate your matches and get you in front of employers ASAP. Create a Developer Story Software Developer (Python) at Picnic Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Help Mobile Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Service Contact Us Cookie Settings Cookie Policy Stack Exchange Network Technology Culture & recreation Life & arts Science Professional Business API Data Blog Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram site design / logo © 2021 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa. rev 2021.11.30.40849 Stack Overflow works best with JavaScript enabled Your privacy By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy. Accept all cookies Customize settings