Backend Developer at AudioValley - Stack Overflow
Backend Developer at AudioValley  - Stack Overflow Stack Overflow About Products For Teams Stack Overflow Public questions & answers Stack Overflow for Teams Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers Jobs Programming & related technical career opportunities Talent Recruit tech talent & build your employer brand Advertising Reach developers & technologists worldwide About the company Loading… Log in Sign up current community Stack Overflow help chat Meta Stack Overflow your communities Sign up or log in to customize your list. more stack exchange communities company blog Home Public Questions Tags Users Collectives Explore Collectives Find a Job Jobs Companies Teams Stack Overflow for Teams – Collaborate and share knowledge with a private group. Create a free Team What is Teams? Teams Create free Team Collectives on Stack Overflow Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most. Learn more Teams Q&A for work Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search. Learn more Jobs Companies Why Jobs? Applications Developer Story You’ve submitted an application. View all your job applications in one central place. Backend Developer AudioValley – Paris, France €45k - 60k On-site and limited remote Save Save Share via email Share via Twitter Share via Facebook Report Dismiss Overview Company Developer Culture More Jobs React to this job: 0 1 0 Posted 12 days ago About this job Job type: Full-time Experience level: Junior, Mid-Level, Senior Role: Backend Developer Industry: Digital Media, Music, Rights Management Company size: 1-10 people Company type: Private Remote details Employer's note: Schedule and recurrence to be defined, but we expect 1-2 days per week at the office (after the pandemic) Technologies pythondjangopostgresqlgoogle-cloud-platformreactjs Job description What you will do Work with other talented engineers (initially 3-4 devs) in a team-oriented agile environment. The team is based mainly in Paris. We have offices in Luxembourg and Bruxelles as well. Remote working is welcome, but relocation necessary. Work closely with product owners to create innovative and brand new products which will help artists and songwriters to monetize and manage their creative works and rights Contribute to the development of our service backbone, integrating with other music data platforms, and building complex and scalable data processing pipelines Enjoy writing code from scratch without the burden of technical debt, contributing to the choice of the right technologies and way-to-do Optionally give your contribution to other teams activities in the field of devops, frontend development, data engineering, project and product management Become an expert of music tech platform integrations and the value chain standards of the music industry Your profile At least a few years of working experience as a web developer BSc or MSc in computer science or other relevant fields is not required but strongly preferable Good knowledge and experience with Python and py-based web frameworks (possibly Django) Good knowledge and experience with SQL (Mysql/PostgreSql/MariaDB) and at least a few NoSQL databases (Redis, ES, Mongo, …) Exposure to other backend languages and frameworks Exposure to Javascript/Typescript and typical front-end frameworks (React, Angular, ...) Exposure to CICD automation, public cloud services, Docker, Linux based compute environments Proven high coding standards Knowledge and passion about data science and engineering A working experience in creative industries is not required, but will play a significant bonus Team working skills You love music and music products You can speak English and/or French About the company AudioValley AudioValley is a leader and pioneer in digital audio thanks to an extensive know-how covering all sectors of its business. Follow your favorite companies By selecting follow, you are opting in to receive an email digest from the companies you follow. Don't worry, your information isn't shared. Follow Follow your favorite companies By selecting follow, you are opting in to receive an email digest from the companies you follow. Don't worry, your information isn't shared. Follow AudioValley is a leader and pioneer in digital audio thanks to an extensive know how covering all sectors of its business. Bridger is an Independent Management Entity focused on value creation. We bridge the gap between rights holders (authors, composers, and publishers) and service providers by giving birth to the conditions of a fair and transparent rights collection system that allows reciprocal growth. We believe in creating opportunities that benefit the whole ecosystem. We are not just rights collectors; we are business enablers. Songwriters and publishers are our raison d’être. We live for their repertoire to be duly identified and claimed when used on streaming platforms. Join us! Benefits Meal vouchers Transportation ticket Homeworking permitted People claudod 585 5 8 Klaymant Front Dev at Outilly 87 5 Learn more about AudioValley More jobs at AudioValley Okay, you won’t see this job anymore. Undo Frontend Developer AudioValley • Paris, France javascripttypescriptreactjstailwind-cssgraphql 12d ago Easy apply €45k–60k Limited remote Okay, you won’t see this job anymore. Undo Data Engineer AudioValley • Anderlecht, Belgium ssisazurepythontsqlpowerbisysadmin 12d ago €45k–65k Remote Okay, you won’t see this job anymore. Undo System Administrator AudioValley • Anderlecht, Belgium securitylinuxazurecloudsysadmin 12d ago €45k–65k Remote Want to get notified about new jobs at AudioValley? Create a company alert Your job search status has been updated. Are you looking for a job? When you create a Developer Story, we’ll accelerate your matches and get you in front of employers ASAP. Create a Developer Story Backend Developer at AudioValley Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Help Mobile Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Service Contact Us Cookie Settings Cookie Policy Stack Exchange Network Technology Culture & recreation Life & arts Science Professional Business API Data Blog Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram site design / logo © 2021 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa. rev 2021.11.30.40849 Stack Overflow works best with JavaScript enabled Your privacy By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy. Accept all cookies Customize settings