Portal:Current events - Wikipedia
Portal:Current events - Wikipedia Portal:Current events From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Portal maintenance status: (October 2020) This portal's subpages have been checked by an editor, and are needed. Please take care when editing, especially if using automated editing software. Learn how to update the maintenance information here. Wikipedia portal for content related to Current events Edit instructions Worldwide current events Sports events Recent deaths Topics in the news Magdalena Andersson Magdalena Andersson (pictured), who resigned a week earlier after one day as designate, is re-elected as Prime Minister of Sweden. Barbados becomes a republic, with Sandra Mason replacing Queen Elizabeth II as the head of state. In baseball, the Tokyo Yakult Swallows defeat the Orix Buffaloes to win the Japan Series. American musical theatre composer and lyricist Stephen Sondheim dies at the age of 91. Ongoing: COVID-19 pandemic Recent deaths: Ray Kennedy Aron Atabek Hermann Bausinger Norodom Ranariddh Virgil Abloh M?rti?š Brauns Nominate an article December 1, 2021 (2021-12-01) (Wednesday) edit history watch November 30, 2021 (2021-11-30) (Tuesday) edit history watch Armed conflicts and attacks ADF insurgency Uganda launches airstrikes against Allied Democratic Forces and Islamic State – Central Africa Province positions in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo. (ABC News) Health and environment COVID-19 pandemic COVID-19 pandemic in Europe COVID-19 pandemic in the United Kingdom COVID-19 pandemic in England England begins to implement mandatory mask wearing in shops, banks, post offices, hairdressers, and public transport as part of targeted measures to prevent the spread of the Omicron variant. (The Guardian) Nottingham reports its second case of the Omicron variant in a student who attends the University of Nottingham. (BBC News) COVID-19 pandemic in Greece COVID-19 vaccination in Greece The government announces that anyone over 60 years of age who is not vaccinated will face a monthly fine of €100 beginning on January 6, 2022. (Ekathimerini) COVID-19 pandemic in Brazil Brazil reports its first "preliminary" cases of the Omicron variant in two people who had travelled to South Africa. (AFP via Barron's) COVID-19 pandemic in Japan Travel during the COVID-19 pandemic Japan closes its border to all newly arrived foreigners and quarantines its citizens on arrival from countries where the Omicron variant has been found due to the fears of the variant. (Bloomberg News) Japan reports its first case of the SARS-CoV-2 Omicron variant in a man in his 30s who had travelled from Namibia. (Radio France Internationale) COVID-19 pandemic in Réunion Réunion reports its first case of the SARS-CoV-2 Omicron variant in a 53-year-old male patient who had returned from Mozambique on November 19. (VOA) COVID-19 vaccine, Variants of SARS-CoV-2 BioNTech CEO U?ur ?ahin and Pfizer CEO Albert Bourla says that their vaccine is likely to be effective against severe disease from the Omicron variant. (Reuters) Law and crime Oxford High School shooting Three students are killed and eight are injured in a mass shooting at a high school in Oxford, Michigan, United States. (Detroit Free Press) Politics and elections 2022 Philippine presidential election Bong Go withdraws his candidacy from the presidential election, stating that he's waiting for "a sign from God". (GMA Network) Republicanism in Barbados Dame Sandra Mason is inaugurated as the first President of Barbados, as the country becomes the 34th Commonwealth republic. (The Guardian) 2021 Honduran general election The ruling centre-right National Party concedes victory to leftist Xiomara Castro, marking a return for the left to power after the 2009 Honduran coup d'état. Castro is the wife of then-ousted president Manuel Zelaya. (Reuters) November 29, 2021 (2021-11-29) (Monday) edit history watch Armed conflicts and attacks Russo-Ukrainian War Turkey offers to mediate between Ukraine and Russia over the conflict between the two nations. (Reuters) Health and environment COVID-19 pandemic COVID-19 pandemic in Europe COVID-19 pandemic in Portugal Portugal reports its first cases of the SARS-CoV-2 Omicron variant in 13 people associated with Belenenses SAD football club. (AP) COVID-19 pandemic in Spain Spain reports its first case of the SARS-CoV-2 Omicron variant in a person who travelled from South Africa. (El Pais) COVID-19 pandemic in Sweden Sweden reports its first case of the SARS-CoV-2 Omicron variant in a person who travelled from South Africa. (Reuters) COVID-19 pandemic in Asia COVID-19 pandemic in Israel Miss Universe France 2021, Clémence Botino, a contestant at the Miss Universe contest in Eilat, Israel, tests positive for COVID-19. (L'Independant) COVID-19 pandemic in the Philippines, COVID-19 vaccination in the Philippines The Philippines launches is campaign to vaccinate 9 million people in three days in order to achieve 70% vaccination target and to prevent the spread of the Omicron variant. (The Straits Times) International aid related to the COVID-19 pandemic COVID-19 pandemic in Angola, COVID-19 pandemic in Kenya, COVID-19 pandemic in Barbados Argentina donates 780,000 doses of the Oxford–AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine to Angola, Kenya and Barbados, which have all detected cases of the Omicron variant. (LMDiario) COVID-19 pandemic in the United States COVID-19 pandemic in Michigan Michigan reports 4,181 hospitalizations from COVID-19, a new single-day record. (The Detroit News) History of COVID-19 vaccine development BioNTech says that it is developing a vaccine to combat the Omicron variant. (Reuters) International relations Foreign relations of Turkey Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdo?an reveals his intentions to rebuild his country's ties with Egypt and Israel. (TRT World) Politics and elections 2021 Honduran general election While votes are still being counted, both Xiomara Castro and Nasry Asfura declare that their respective tickets have won the presidential election. (Al Jazeera) Magdalena Andersson is re-elected as Prime Minister of Sweden by the Riksdag after she resigned last week. (Euronews) Science and technology Jack Dorsey resigns as the CEO of Twitter and is succeeded by Chief technology officer Parag Agrawal. (CNBC) Researchers from the National Autonomous University of Mexico discover two new antibiotic molecules inside the venom of a scorpion from the Diplocentrus genus, which may hold the properties to stop several different kinds of harmful bacteria and tumour cells. (The Yucatan Times) November 28, 2021 (2021-11-28) (Sunday) edit history watch Armed conflicts and attacks Islamic State insurgency in Iraq Five Peshmerga fighters are killed and four more are wounded during a shooting and bombing attack by the Islamic State in Diyala. (Al Jazeera) 2020–2021 Ethiopian–Sudanese clashes Six Sudanese soldiers are killed during a confrontation with Ethiopian troops in a disputed border region. (Al Jazeera) Operation Barkhane A convoy carrying French troops in Niger opens fire against locals in Téra, Tillabéri Region, who were protesting against the French presence in the country, killing two people and wounding 18 others. (The Guardian) Disasters and accidents 2021 Northern Peru earthquake A 7.5 magnitude earthquake strikes northern Peru at 131 kilometres (81 mi) of depth, killing one person and injuring 12 others. 75 homes are destroyed and around 220 damaged. The earthquake is felt as far south as Lima. President Pedro Castillo orders the deployment of relief and also viewed the area in a military aircraft. (Infobae) Health and environment COVID-19 pandemic COVID-19 pandemic in Asia COVID-19 pandemic in Indonesia Indonesia bans foreigners who have travelled to South Africa, Botswana, Namibia, Zimbabwe, Lesotho, Mozambique, Eswatini and Nigeria in the past 14 days amid the emergence of the Omicron variant. (BBC News) COVID-19 pandemic in Israel Israel closes its borders to all foreigners and requires citizens who have travelled outside the country to quarantine for three days for fully vaccinated people and seven days for unvaccinated people as part of an effort to reduce the spread of the Omicron variant. (France 24) COVID-19 pandemic in Maldives Maldives bans entry to flights from South Africa, Botswana, Zimbabwe, Mozambique, Namibia, Lesotho, Malawi and Eswatini. (CNA) COVID-19 pandemic in the Philippines The Philippines bans entry to flights from Austria, Belgium, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Italy, the Netherlands and Switzerland. Additionally, the entry of fully vaccinated foreign nationals from green-list countries that was expected to begin on December 1 is temporarily suspended. (Rappler) COVID-19 pandemic in Africa COVID-19 pandemic in Morocco The Moroccan government announces that it will suspend all incoming passenger flights for the next two weeks. (Al Jazeera) COVID-19 pandemic in Rwanda Rwanda temporarily suspends all commercial flights to Southern Africa due to the emergence of the Omicron variant. (The New Times) COVID-19 pandemic in Canada COVID-19 pandemic in Ontario Canada reports its first cases of the Omicron variant in two people in Ontario who recently traveled to Nigeria. (Reuters) COVID-19 pandemic in the Netherlands The Netherlands reports its first cases of the Omicron variant in 13 people who traveled from South Africa on November 26. (ABC News) The Netherlands tightens its partial lockdown restrictions that require non-essential shops, sports facilities, and hospitality and cultural venues to close at 5 p.m., and chemists, supermarkets, and wholesalers to close at 8 p.m., amid a record number of new COVID-19 cases as well as concerns about the Omicron variant. (BBC News) COVID-19 pandemic in Australia Australia reports its first cases of the Omicron variant in two people who travelled from Southern Africa and are currently in quarantine in a hotel in New South Wales. (ABC News Australia) Law and crime 2021 Iranian protests Sixty-seven protesters are arrested in Isfahan during a protest against water shortages. (Deutsche Welle) Politics and elections 2021 Czech legislative election Petr Fiala is designated as Prime Minister of the Czech Republic to form a majority government following the October election. (Deutsche Welle) 2021 Honduran general election Hondurans go to the polls to elect their next President. (NPR) 2021 Kyrgyz parliamentary election Kyrgyzstan holds parliamentary elections after the annulment of the results of the October 2020 elections due to protests. (Al Jazeera) Aftermath of the 2021 Icelandic parliamentary election Prime Minister Katrín Jakobsdóttir's second cabinet takes office after reaching an agreement with the Left-Green Movement, the Independence Party and the Progressive Party. (Reuters) November 27, 2021 (2021-11-27) (Saturday) edit history watch Armed conflicts and attacks 2021 social unrest in the French West Indies France says that it is willing to discuss greater autonomy for Guadeloupe if "it is in the interests of the people who live there". The Caribbean archipelago has experienced violent demonstrations in recent days, and Guadeloupean officials have raised the issue of autonomy with France. (Reuters) Business and economy List of events affected by the COVID-19 pandemic The World Trade Organization postpones its four-day Ministerial Conference, which was scheduled to be held on November 29 in Geneva, Switzerland, amid the emergence of the new Omicron variant that was declared a "variant of concern" by the WHO. (France 24) Disasters and accidents 2021–22 European windstorm season Three people are killed in the United Kingdom as Storm Arwen hits the British Isles. Widespread damage and travel disruptions are reported in Scotland and North East England, with 100,000 people losing power. (BBC News) Health and environment COVID-19 pandemic COVID-19 pandemic in Europe COVID-19 pandemic in Belgium Belgium imposes new anti-COVID-19 measures that close nightclubs, discos and dance halls, require businesses in the hospitality sector to close at 11 p.m., ban organised private parties, and limit the number of people at tables at bars and restaurants to six people unless they are from the same household, amid a fourth wave of the pandemic. (The Brussels Times) COVID-19 pandemic in Czech Republic The Czech Republic reports its first case of the SARS-CoV-2 Omicron variant in a woman in Liberec who had been in Namibia. She had passed through South Africa and Dubai on her flight to the Czech Republic. (Deutsche Welle) COVID-19 pandemic in Germany Germany reports its first cases of the SARS-CoV-2 Omicron variant in two people in Bavaria who entered the country at Munich Airport on November 24. (Deutsche Welle) COVID-19 pandemic in Italy Italy reports its first case of the SARS-CoV-2 Omicron variant in a person who travelled from Mozambique. (Times of Malta) COVID-19 pandemic in the United Kingdom The United Kingdom reports its first cases of the SARS-CoV-2 Omicron variant in two people who travelled from southern Africa to Chelmsford and Nottingham. (BBC News) COVID-19 pandemic in Bangladesh, Travel during the COVID-19 pandemic Bangladesh suspends the entry of travellers from South Africa amid fears of the spread of the SARS-CoV-2 Omicron variant first detected in Botswana. (Business Standard) International relations European Migrant Crisis Greece builds two new ''Closed Controlled Access Centers" for migrants. (ANSAmed) November 26, 2021 (2021-11-26) (Friday) edit history watch Armed conflicts and attacks 2021 Solomon Islands unrest Australian Federal Police take control of the Solomon Islands capital of Honiara following three days of civil unrest. A nighttime curfew begins at 7:00 p.m. local time while rioting and looting continues in the Chinatown suburb of the city. (Reuters) Three people are found dead at a burnt-out store in the Chinatown suburb in Honiara. (Al Jazeera) Business and economy Economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic Stocks and oil prices decline sharply amid growing concerns over the SARS-CoV-2 Omicron variant. (FT) (CNBC) Disasters and accidents 2021 Mexico bus crash A passenger bus crashes on a highway in San José del Rincón, Mexico, killing 19 people and injuring 32 others. (ABC News) Health and environment COVID-19 pandemic COVID-19 pandemic in Europe COVID-19 pandemic in Belgium Belgium reports its first case of the Omicron variant in an unvaccinated person who travelled abroad. (Reuters) COVID-19 pandemic in the Czech Republic The Czech Republic reports a record 27,717 new cases of COVID-19 in the past 24 hours. (The Washington Post) COVID-19 pandemic in France France imposes mandatory mask wearing in all indoor venues and outdoor Christmas markets, even when a Health Pass is required for an event, due to an increase in COVID-19 cases, hospitalizations, and deaths. (Euronews) COVID-19 pandemic in Germany Germany reports a record for the third consecutive day of 76,414 new cases of COVID-19. (Anadolu Agency) COVID-19 pandemic in Asia COVID-19 pandemic in Hong Kong Hong Kong reports its first two cases of the Omicron variant in a man who had travelled from South Africa this month, and later in another man staying across the hall in the same quarantine hotel. (The New York Times) COVID-19 pandemic in Israel Israel reports its first case of the Omicron variant in a person who travelled from Malawi. (The Times of Israel) COVID-19 pandemic in the Philippines, Travel during the COVID-19 pandemic The Inter-Agency Task Force for the Management of Emerging Infectious Diseases approves the entry of fully-vaccinated foreign nationals from green-list countries beginning on December 1. (Philippine Daily Inquirer) SARS-CoV-2 Omicron variant The World Health Organization names the Lineage B.1.1.529 variant as "Omicron" and designates it as a "variant of concern" due to the variant's large number of mutations and an increased risk of reinfection. (The Hill) Canada, the EU, Israel, Japan, Morocco, the Philippines, Singapore, Turkey, the UAE, the UK, and the U.S. ban flights from South Africa, Namibia, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Lesotho, Mozambique, Malawi, and Eswatini due to the Omicron variant. (CNN) International relations Russia–Ukraine relations Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky accuses Russia of plotting a coup against him and says that Ukrainian tycoon Rinat Akhmetov was being enlisted to help plan the coup. Zelensky says that his country "is prepared for any scenario" as tensions rise. (The Washington Post) 2021 Belarus–European Union border crisis Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko makes a public appearance at the Belarus–Poland border for the first time since the migrant crisis began. Lukashenko gives a speech to migrants, telling them that they are free to either return home or head west, saying, "If you want to go westwards, we won't detain you, choke you, beat you. It's up to you. Go through. Go." (Reuters) France–Italy relations Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi and French President Emmanuel Macron sign a treaty that strengthens the ties between the two countries "in areas including defence, migration, the economy, culture and trade". (Euractiv) (ANSA) Law and crime Mass shootings in the United States Three people are killed and four others injured during a mass shooting in Nashville, Tennessee, United States. (NBC News) November 25, 2021 (2021-11-25) (Thursday) edit history watch Armed conflicts and attacks Somali Civil War November 2021 Mogadishu bombing A car bombing targeting a UN convoy explodes outside a school in Mogadishu, killing eight people and injuring 17 others. Jihadist group al-Shabaab claims responsibility for the attack. (Al Jazeera) Piracy in the Gulf of Guinea Royal Danish Navy frigate HDMS Esbern Snare opens fire and kills four pirates in the Gulf of Guinea after being fired upon. Four other pirates are detained and taken aboard by Frogman Corps. The incident took place 25 to 30 nautical miles south of the territorial boundary of Nigeria. (Reuters) At least 35 people are killed during an eight-day fight over a dispute about camel looting between herders in Jebel Moon, Darfur, Sudan. Sixteen villages and thousands of homes are also set on fire. (Al Jazeera) Disasters and accidents Listvyazhnaya mine disaster A fire inside a coal mine in Kemerovo Oblast, Russia, traps 285 miners underground. Forty-six miners are killed and 49 others are being treated for smoke inhalation in hospital. Five rescuers later die while searching for trapped miners, bringing the total death toll to 51. (DW) (CBC) Health and environment COVID-19 pandemic COVID-19 pandemic in Europe COVID-19 pandemic in Spain The High Court of Justice of Catalonia approves the use of the COVID-19 immunity passport for restaurants, bars and fitness centers in the region. (El País) Establishments in Aragon, such as restaurants and nightclubs, begin requiring certificates of immunity for entry. (Expansión) COVID-19 pandemic in the Czech Republic The government declares a 30-day state of emergency and imposes new measures that will require bars and restaurants to close at 10 p.m., bans alcohol consumption at bars and restaurants, restricts the number of people at gatherings and events and bans Christmas markets. These measures will take effect tomorrow. (Radio Prague International) COVID-19 pandemic in France The French Minister of Social Affairs and Health announces a nationalized plan to provide a third booster dose of the COVID-19 vaccines to all adults beginning on 27 November, instead of enacting another nationwide state of lockdown in order to reduce the currently record-breaking spread of COVID-19. (Associated Press) COVID-19 pandemic in Germany Germany surpasses 100,000 deaths from COVID-19 and also reports a record 75,961 new cases of COVID-19 in the past 24 hours. (ABC News) COVID-19 pandemic in the United Kingdom The United Kingdom surpasses 10 million cases of COVID-19. (ITV News) European Union response to the COVID-19 pandemic Travel during the COVID-19 pandemic The European Commission issues recommendations that the issuance of the EU Digital COVID Certificate be shortened to nine months with a requirement to receive a booster dose. Furthermore, the commission recommends the acceptance of all COVID-19 vaccines listed under the Emergency Use Listing by the World Health Organization, including Chinese and Indian-produced vaccines. (Reuters) COVID-19 vaccine The European Medicines Agency officially approves the use of the Pfizer–BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine for children between the ages of 5 and 11 years, becoming the first vaccine to be approved for these age groups in Europe. (Associated Press) COVID-19 pandemic in Australia, COVID-19 vaccination in Australia COVID-19 pandemic in Victoria The number of people who have received a second dose of the COVID-19 vaccine in Victoria surpasses 90%. (7 News) COVID-19 pandemic in Argentina, COVID-19 vaccination in Argentina Argentina receives 2.5 million doses of the COVID-19 vaccine, which includes 1.1 million doses of the Pfizer–BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine and 1.3 million doses of the Oxford–AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine. (ANDigital) COVID-19 pandemic in Laos Laos reports a record 1,504 new cases of COVID-19 in the past 24 hours, thereby bringing the nationwide total of confirmed cases to 67,322. (The Laotian Times) COVID-19 pandemic in South Africa, SARS-CoV-2 Omicron variant South African scientists detect a new COVID-19 variant named Lineage B.1.1.529 that poses a "major threat" to efforts to reduce the spread of the virus, and blames the variant for the exponential rise of new cases in the country. (Deutsche Welle) The latest quinquennial National Family Health Survey in India finds that the population's total fertility rate has dropped to a point below the key replacement rate for the first time in the nation's history. (The Washington Post) International relations COVID-19 pandemic in Israel, COVID-19 pandemic in Africa, Travel restrictions related to the COVID-19 pandemic Israel bans entry of travellers from South Africa, Lesotho, Botswana, Zimbabwe, Mozambique, Namibia and Eswatini and discourages its citizens from travelling to those countries due to the emergence of the Lineage B.1.1.529 variant. (Reuters) Turkey–United Arab Emirates relations Turkey and the United Arab Emirates sign several investment accords during a high-level visit to Ankara by Abu Dhabi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, including a $10 billion investment fund to support the Turkish health and energy sectors. The Turkish and Emirati central banks also sign a cooperation agreement. (Reuters) Law and crime 2021 Solomon Islands unrest Rioters demanding the resignation of Solomon Islands Prime Minister Manasseh Sogavare set fire to buildings in Honiara's Chinatown neighborhood. Protesters have been defying a 36-hour lockdown imposed following unrest yesterday. (The Guardian) Australia announces that it will deploy federal police and Australian Defence Force personnel to Honiara to aid with riot control and to secure infrastructure sites following a formal request for help from Prime Minister Sogavare. (SBS News) (Solomon Times) Opposition leader Matthew Wale calls on the prime minister and his government to resign. (Solomon Times) Blasphemy in Pakistan Four Muslim men are charged with blasphemy, after arguing with an Imam who refused to make a funeral announcement for a Christian man in the village of Khodi Khushal Singh, Punjab, Pakistan. (Al Jazeera) Politics and elections 2021 Romanian political crisis The Parliament of Romania votes the investiture of Prime Minister Nicolae Ciuc?'s grand coalition cabinet, thereby ending nearly the political crisis. (Politico) More November 2021 events... Time: 00:54 UTC|Day: 1 December ?December 2021? S M T W T F S 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 More December 2021 events... About this page Report a dispute • News about Wikipedia Ongoing events Disasters Climate crisis COVID-19 pandemic 2020–21 H5N8 outbreak 2021 Pacific typhoon season Madagascar food crisis Water crisis in Iran Yemeni famine 2021 La Palma eruption Economic 2020–2021 global chip shortage 2021 global supply chain crisis COVID-19 recession Lebanese liquidity crisis Pandora Papers leak Sri Lankan economic and food crisis Turkish currency and debt crisis United Kingdom natural gas supplier crisis Politics Belarus?European Union border crisis Brazilian protests Colombian tax reform protests Eswatini protests Haitian protests Indian farmers' protests Insulate Britain protests Jersey dispute Libyan peace process Malaysian political crisis Myanmar protests Nicaraguan protests Nigerian protests Persian Gulf crisis Peruvian crisis Russian election protests Solomon Islands unrest Tigrayan peace process Thai protests Tunisian political crisis United States racial unrest Venezuelan presidential crisis edit section Elections and referendums Recent November 18: Tonga, Legislative Assembly 21: Bulgaria, President (2nd) 21: Chile, President (1st), Senate, Chamber of Deputies 28: Kyrgyzstan, Supreme Council 28: Honduras, President, National Congress Upcoming December 4: The Gambia, President 12: New Caledonia, Independence referendum 12: Transnistria, President edit section Trials Recently concluded Belarus: Maria Kalesnikava France: Nicolas Sarkozy Myanmar: Danny Fenster Rwanda: Paul Rusesabagina United States: Murder of Ahmaud Arbery, Kyle Rittenhouse, Yanjun Xu, Lev Parnas, R. Kelly, Robert Durst Ongoing Armenia: Serzh Sargsyan Belarus: Sergei Tikhanovsky Canada: Raj Grewal France: Brussels ISIL Indonesia: Nurdin Abdullah Israel: Benjamin Netanyahu Italy: Matteo Salvini Kyrgyzstan: Almazbek Atambayev Malta: Yorgen Fenech Myanmar: Aung San Suu Kyi Philippines: Leila de Lima Sudan: Omar al-Bashir United States: Elizabeth Holmes, Jussie Smollett, Ghislaine Maxwell Upcoming Indonesia: Azis Syamsuddin, Alex Noerdin Kosovo: Hashim Thaçi, Kadri Veseli Nigeria: Nnamdi Kanu Sweden: Hamid Nouri United States: Allen Weisselberg, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed Vatican City: Giovanni Angelo Becciu ICC: Ali Kushayb edit section Sport Association football 2021–22 UEFA Europa League 2021–22 UEFA Champions league 2021–22 Premier League 2021–22 Bundesliga 2021–22 Serie A 2021–22 La Liga 2022 FIFA World Cup qualification 2020–21 UEFA Nations League 2021 Campeonato Brasileiro Série A 2021 MLS Cup Playoffs American football 2021 NCAA Division I FBS football season 2021 NCAA Division I FCS football season 2021 NFL season Basketball 2021–22 NBA season 2021-22 NCAA Division I Men's Basketball Season 2021-22 NCAA Division I Women's Basketball Season Cricket 2021–23 ICC World Test Championship 2020–23 ICC Cricket World Cup Super League 2019–23 ICC Cricket World Cup League 2 2019–22 ICC Cricket World Cup Challenge League Canadian football 2021 CFL season Golf 2020 PGA Tour Champions 2021 Ladies European Tour 2021–22 PGA Tour Ice hockey 2021–22 NHL season 2021–22 IIHF Continental Cup Motorsport 2021 Formula One Championship 2021 Supercars Championship Rugby union 2021–22 Premiership Rugby 2021–22 United Rugby Championship 2021–22 Top 14 2021 Super Rugby season Tennis 2021 ATP Tour 2020–21 Davis Cup (Finals) Other sports seasons 2021–22 International cricket season 2021–22 snooker season 2021–22 curling season More details – current sports events edit section Recent deaths November 29: Arlene Dahl 29: David Gulpilil 28: Virgil Abloh 28: Emily Mkamanga 28: Norodom Ranariddh 28: Frank Williams 27: Curley Culp 27: Almudena Grandes 26: Stephen Sondheim 25: Oleksandr Omelchenko 24: Aron Atabek 23: Bill Virdon 23: James Fitz-Allen Mitchell 23: Chun Doo-hwan 22: Doug Jones 21: Antonio Escohotado 19: Ian Fishback 18: Peter Buck 18: Mick Rock 18: Ardeshir Zahedi 17: Dave Frishberg 17: Art LaFleur 17: Young Dolph 16: Ri Yong-suk 15: Julio Lugo 15: Clarissa Eden 15: Daulet Sembaev 14: Etel Adnan 14: W. Sterling Cary 13: Sam Huff 13: Wilbur Smith 12: Dave Hickey 12: Matthew Festing 11: Glen de Vries 11: Graeme Edge 11: Winter 11: F. W. de Klerk 10: Jun Hong Lu 9: Max Cleland 9: Austin Currie 8: Pedro Feliciano 8: Seán FitzPatrick 8: Mahlagha Mallah 8: Abdul Wahab Dalimunthe 7: Dean Stockwell 6: Angelo Mosca 6: Shawn Rhoden 6: Cissé Mariam Kaïdama Sidibé 6: Muamer Zukorli? 6: Yukhym Zvyahilsky 5: Marília Mendonça 4: Ruth Ann Minner 4: Lionel Blair 3: Georgie Dann 2: Sabah Fakhri 1: Aaron Beck edit section Ongoing conflicts Africa Angola Cabinda War Cameroon Anglophone Crisis Central African Republic Civil War Chad Insurgency in Northern Chad Democratic Republic of the Congo Kivu conflict Allied Democratic Forces insurgency Ituri conflict Lord's Resistance Army insurgency Kamwina Nsapu rebellion Ethiopia Tigray War (spillover) Oromo conflict Ethiopia and Sudan Sudanese–Ethiopian clashes Ghana Western Togoland Rebellion Maghreb and Sahel regions Maghreb insurgency Mali Mali War Mozambique Insurgency in Cabo Delgado Nigeria Boko Haram insurgency (incl. Lake Chad region) Communal conflicts in Nigeria Senegal Casamance conflict Somalia Civil war South Sudan Ethnic violence in South Sudan Sudan War in Darfur South Kordofan conflict Sudanese nomadic conflicts (incl. South Sudan) Tunisia ISIL insurgency in Tunisia Western Sahara Western Sahara conflict 2020–2021 Western Saharan clashes Americas Colombia Colombian conflict Mexico Mexican drug war Peru Internal conflict in Peru Paraguay Insurgency in Paraguay Asia-Pacific Afghanistan Panjshir conflict Islamic State–Taliban conflict India Insurgency in Northeast India Assam separatist movements Insurgency in Manipur Ethnic conflict in Nagaland Khalistan movement Naxalite–Maoist insurgency India and Pakistan Kashmir conflict Indonesia, Malaysia and the Philippines Moro conflict Cross border attacks in Sabah Indonesia Papua conflict Myanmar Internal conflict in Myanmar Kachin conflict Karen conflict Rohingya conflict Pakistan Insurgency in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Insurgency in Balochistan Philippines Communist rebellion Philippine drug war Thailand South Thailand insurgency Europe Armenia and Azerbaijan Nagorno-Karabakh conflict Ukraine War in Donbas Russo-Ukrainian War Ireland and the UK Dissident Irish republican campaign Turkey Kurdish–Turkish conflict Global War on terror Middle East Egypt Sinai insurgency Iran and the Persian Gulf Iran–Israel proxy conflict Iran–Saudi Arabia proxy conflict Sistan and Baluchestan insurgency Arab separatism in Khuzestan Kurdish separatism in Iran Iraq Iraqi conflict American-led intervention in Iraq Iranian intervention in Iraq Iraq and Syria (map) International military intervention against ISIL Israel and Gaza Israel and Syria Israeli-Syrian border conflict Israeli-Syrian ceasefire line incidents Syria American-led intervention in Syria Russian military intervention in the Syrian civil war Turkish occupation of northern Syria Yemen and Saudi Arabia Yemeni Civil War Saudi Arabian-led intervention in Yemen Houthi–Saudi Arabian conflict Further information: List of ongoing armed conflicts edit section 2021 events and developments by topic Arts Architecture – Animation – Anime – Comics – Film (Horror, Science fiction) – Home video – Literature – Music (Classical, Country, Hip hop, Latin, Metal, Rock, UK, US) – Radio – Television (UK, US, Italy, Scotland) – Video games Politics and government Elections – International leaders – Sovereign states – Sovereign state leaders – Territorial governors Science and technology Archaeology – Biotechnology – Computing – Palaeontology – Quantum computing and communication – Senescence research – Sustainable energy research – Space/Astronomy – Spaceflight Environment and environmental sciences Birding/Ornithology – Climate change Transportation Aviation – Rail transport By place Afghanistan – Albania – Algeria – Andorra – Angola – Antarctica – Argentina – Armenia – Australia – Austria – Azerbaijan – Bangladesh – The Bahamas – Bahrain – Barbados – Belarus – Belgium – Benin – Bhutan – Bolivia – Bosnia and Herzegovina – Botswana – Brazil – Bulgaria – Burkina Faso – Burundi – Cambodia – Cameroon – Canada – Cape Verde – Central African Republic – Chad – Chile – China – Colombia – Costa Rica – Comoros – Croatia – Cuba – Cyprus – Czech Republic – Denmark – Ecuador – Egypt – El Salvador – Eritrea – Estonia – Ethiopia – European Union – Eswatini – Fiji – Finland – France – Gabon – Georgia – Germany – Ghana – Greece – Guatemala – Guinea – Guinea-Bissau – Guyana – Haiti – Honduras – Hong Kong – Hungary – Iceland – India – Indonesia – Iran – Iraq – Ireland – Israel – Italy – Ivory Coast – Japan – Jordan – Kazakhstan – Kenya – Kiribati – Kosovo – Kuwait – Kyrgyzstan – Laos – Latvia – Lebanon – Lesotho – Liberia – Libya – Lithuania – Luxembourg – Macau – Madagascar – Marshall Islands – Malawi – Malaysia – Mali – Malta – Mauritania – Mexico – Micronesia – Moldova – Mongolia – Montenegro – Morocco – Mozambique – Myanmar – Nauru – Namibia – Nepal – Netherlands – New Zealand – Nicaragua – Niger – Nigeria – North Korea – North Macedonia – Norway – Oman – Pakistan – Palau – Palestine – Panama – Papua New Guinea – Paraguay – Peru – Philippines – Poland – Portugal – Qatar – Romania – Russia – Rwanda – Samoa – Saudi Arabia – Senegal – Serbia – Seychelles – Singapore – Slovakia – Slovenia – Somalia – South Africa – Solomon Islands – South Korea – South Sudan – Spain – Sri Lanka – Sudan – Sweden – Switzerland – Syria – Taiwan – Tajikistan – Tanzania – Thailand – Togo – Tonga – Tunisia – Turkey – Turkmenistan – Tuvalu – Uganda – Ukraine – United Arab Emirates – United Kingdom – United States – Uruguay – Uzbekistan – Vanuatu – Venezuela – Vietnam – Yemen – Zambia – Zimbabwe Establishments and disestablishments categories Establishments – Disestablishments Works and introductions categories Works – Introductions – Works entering the public domain Wikimedia Commons has media related to 2021. ...more edit section v t e Events by month 2021 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2020 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2019 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2018 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2017 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2016 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2015 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2014 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2013 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2012 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2011 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2010 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2009 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2008 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2007 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2006 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2005 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2004 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2003 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2002 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2001 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2000 January February March April May June July August September October November December 1999 January February March April May June July August September October November December 1998 January February March April May June July August September October November December 1997 January February March April May June July August September October November December 1996 January February March April May June July August September October November December 1995 January February March April May June July August September October November December 1994 January February March April May June July August September October November December Portal:Current events Calendars Content listings Types Overviews Outlines Lists Portals Glossaries Categories Indices Featured content Good articles Spoken articles Topics Current events Reference Culture Geography Health History Mathematics Nature People Philosophy Religion Society Technology Places, people and times Academic disciplines Anniversaries today Countries and territories Timelines decades, centuries, and millennia Indices A–Z index Categories Dewey Decimal classes Library of Congress Classification Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Current_events&oldid=1054047874" Categories: All portals 2021 by day Current events portal 2021 Current events History portals Hidden categories: Wikipedia pages protected against vandalism Portals with triaged subpages from October 2020 All portals with triaged subpages Portals with no named maintainer Portals with short description Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Portal Talk Variants expanded collapsed Views Read View source View history More expanded collapsed Search Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version Languages Ænglisc ??????? ??????? Az?rbaycanca ?????? ????? Banjar Bân-lâm-gú ????????? ?????????? ??????? Bikol Central Català ??????? Cebuano ?eština Dansk ?????? ???????? ?????? Español Esperanto Estremeñu Euskara E?egbe ????? Føroyskt Français Gaeilge Gaelg ?? ??????? ???/Hak-kâ-ngî ??? ??????? Hrvatski Bahasa Indonesia Interlingua ???? IsiZulu Íslenska Kapampangan ??????? ??????? Kurdî Ladino Latina Lëtzebuergesch Lietuvi? Li Niha Limburgs Magyar ?????? ?????? ????? ???? ???????? Bahasa Melayu Minangkabau ?????? ?????????? Dorerin Naoero Nederlands ?????? ????? ???? ??? Napulitano ??????? Occitan O?zbekcha/??????? ?????? ????????? Piemontèis Polski Português Român? ??????? Scots Shqip Sicilianu ????? ???? Sloven?ina Soomaaliga ????? ?????? / srpski Srpskohrvatski / ?????????????? Sunda Suomi Svenska Tagalog ????? ???????/tatarça ??? ?????? ??? ?????????? ???? Vepsän kel’ Ti?ng Vi?t Volapük Walon ?? ?? ?????? Yorùbá ?? Zeêuws ?? Dagbanli Edit links This page was last edited on 7 November 2021, at 19:18 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement