Frontend Engineer #javascript #react.js #backbone.js for George (all genders) at Erste Group - Stack Overflow
Frontend Engineer #javascript #react.js #backbone.js for George (all genders) at Erste Group  - Stack Overflow Stack Overflow About Products For Teams Stack Overflow Public questions & answers Stack Overflow for Teams Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers Jobs Programming & related technical career opportunities Talent Recruit tech talent & build your employer brand Advertising Reach developers & technologists worldwide About the company Loading… Log in Sign up current community Stack Overflow help chat Meta Stack Overflow your communities Sign up or log in to customize your list. more stack exchange communities company blog Home Public Questions Tags Users Collectives Explore Collectives Find a Job Jobs Companies Teams Stack Overflow for Teams – Collaborate and share knowledge with a private group. Create a free Team What is Teams? Teams Create free Team Collectives on Stack Overflow Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most. Learn more Teams Q&A for work Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search. Learn more Jobs Companies Why Jobs? Applications Developer Story You’ve submitted an application. View all your job applications in one central place. Frontend Engineer #javascript #react.js #backbone.js for George (all genders) Erste Group – Wien, Österreich On-site and limited remote Visa sponsor Paid relocation Save Save Share via email Share via Twitter Share via Facebook Report Dismiss Overview Company Developer Culture More Jobs React to this job: 1 1 0 Posted 13 days ago About this job Job type: Full-time Experience level: Junior, Mid-Level, Senior Role: Frontend Developer Industry: Banking, Finance, Financial Technology Company size: 10k+ people Remote details Employer's note: In agreement with the managers, home office is possible at any time - even for longer periods. Visa Sponsorship: Yes Relocation Assistance: Yes Technologies javascriptbackbone.jstypescriptreactjsreact Job description Banking has a name. And we create it. For more than 6 million customers across Europe, George stands for a digital banking experience that combines design and technology on an open platform. At Erste Group IT, we strive for for everyone. We achieve this by empowering people to understand, manage and, last but not least, enjoy one of their most personal things: their money. Join us in our agile environment and make banking simple, intelligent and personal again! Your idea of a perfect offsite would be to perform code reviews with other developers. As our Frontend Developer (all genders), you will implement new features for the George banking platform, and when needed, change and extend existing features. You’ll collaborate closely with business analysts in specking new features, initiate test coverage for existing features, and help bring innovative and delightful designs to life. We’re looking for mindful, empathetic, and self-aware engineers to join our team and make George shine for the user. What you’ll bring with you Several years of experience building single page web applications Fluency in web development technologies with a good feel for what is and is not possible A bag-full of JavaScript (ES6), ReactJS or BackboneJS, and Git skills, with some TypeScript knowledge also welcome Ninja-like skills of refactoring and working with legacy code. Understanding the value of TDD, BDD and testing frameworks (Jest, Mocha, Jasmine) as a way to deliver software of higher value An ability to express your values and opinions and articulating them in fluent English We are looking for someone, who... knows all the good parts of JavaScript is experienced with Test-driven JavaScript development wants to write clean and solid code loves improving the Design of existing code manages to work effectively with legacy code spent time learning JavaScript design patterns already started the road from journeyman to master can tell what the code smells like Why you will like us We’re a team of experienced developers who love to exchange ideas and push the boundaries We provide everything you need to work (e.g., MacBook Pro, mobile device, licenses) and lots of additional benefits We are open minded, and we are always keen to stand up and go the extra mile for the correct solution We care for your personal well-being and career development while actively supporting your educational needs We encourage regular conference visits and multiple chances to shine with George New Work is not just another buzz word to us. We proactively adapt to the ever-changing work environment of today Working from home, virtual office, working while riding a bike. What ever and how ever you do your best work to make George shine, is fine by us. A competitive and performance-related salary dependent on your professional and personal qualifications is granted - we are obliged by law to quote the minimum wage of EUR 2000 gross per month for this full time position. The way we are As an employee of Erste Group IT, the success of our people is more than a motto, it’s our manifest. We nurture a work environment where age, skin colour, gender, sexual orientation and cultural background are seen as the key to our success – we live diversity! If you’ve got this far It seems we have your interest. If you think you are a good fit for this position, please get in touch with us, we’d love to catch up. About the company Erste Group Re-inventing banking for everyone and leading the charge in digital transformation of the banking industry. Follow your favorite companies By selecting follow, you are opting in to receive an email digest from the companies you follow. Don't worry, your information isn't shared. Follow Follow your favorite companies By selecting follow, you are opting in to receive an email digest from the companies you follow. Don't worry, your information isn't shared. Follow Shaping the Future of Banking is Digital. Innovation, leading change, and disrupting the financial services industry has been a part of Erste Group’s DNA for 200 years. This has resulted in the Group becoming a digital banking success story with IT being an integral part of our customer service promise. Our tech team at Erste Group ensures successful delivery of innovative digital banking solutions across our banks within the CEE region. This powers our market-leading digital banking platform, George, with more than 4 million customers and provides the foundation for transformation and success into the digital era. Our diverse, international team of over 50 nationalities is agile, creative, playful and committed in shaping the future of banking. We’re looking for great people to help us deliver this promise. A dynamic IT community – Learning and doing, together Coding for scale, iterating and delivering market ready solutions as we aim to continuously improve the code-base is how we work together. Our tech specialists have their own area of focus with enough autonomy to discuss and review the technical requirements. We believe that having the freedom to create solutions can ultimately impact the financial lives of millions of customers. Benefits All the hardware & software you need to do your best work Personal development and trainings Flexible working options and home office days Good food at your fingertips Near infinite supply of coffee, fruits, sweets, and sparkling water Capable Table-Soccer and Table-Tennis opponents Attendance at Conferences, Key Notes optional Hackathon Height adjustable tables People Christina Rainer 1 Learn more about Erste Group More jobs at Erste Group Okay, you won’t see this job anymore. Undo Software Engineer for Group Risk Solutions (all genders) #python #bash Erste Group • Wien, Österreich pythonbashsql yesterday Limited remote Visa sponsor Paid relocation Okay, you won’t see this job anymore. Undo Fullstack Developer #Angular #Spring #Hibernate (all genders) Erste Group • Wien, Österreich javasqlspringangularhibernate 21d ago Limited remote Visa sponsor Paid relocation Okay, you won’t see this job anymore. Undo iOS Developer for George (all genders) Erste Group • Wien, Österreich iosswiftuikitswiftuigit 13d ago Limited remote Visa sponsor Paid relocation Okay, you won’t see this job anymore. Undo Datawarehouse/PL/SQL Engineer #SQL #PL/SQL (all genders) Erste Group • Wien, Österreich sqloraclesql-serverplsqldata-warehouse 13d ago Visa sponsor Paid relocation Want to get notified about new jobs at Erste Group? Create a company alert Your job search status has been updated. Are you looking for a job? When you create a Developer Story, we’ll accelerate your matches and get you in front of employers ASAP. Create a Developer Story Frontend Engineer #javascript #react.js #backbone.js for George (all genders) at Erste Group Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Help Mobile Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Service Contact Us Cookie Settings Cookie Policy Stack Exchange Network Technology Culture & recreation Life & arts Science Professional Business API Data Blog Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram site design / logo © 2021 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa. rev 2021.11.30.40849 Stack Overflow works best with JavaScript enabled Your privacy By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy. Accept all cookies Customize settings