(Senior) Full-Stack Software Engineer for 20 Minuten news platform (f/m/d) 80-10 at TX Group - Stack Overflow
(Senior) Full-Stack Software Engineer for 20 Minuten news platform (f/m/d) 80-10 at TX Group  - Stack Overflow Stack Overflow About Products For Teams Stack Overflow Public questions & answers Stack Overflow for Teams Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers Jobs Programming & related technical career opportunities Talent Recruit tech talent & build your employer brand Advertising Reach developers & technologists worldwide About the company Loading… Log in Sign up current community Stack Overflow help chat Meta Stack Overflow your communities Sign up or log in to customize your list. more stack exchange communities company blog Home Public Questions Tags Users Collectives Explore Collectives Find a Job Jobs Companies Teams Stack Overflow for Teams – Collaborate and share knowledge with a private group. Create a free Team What is Teams? Teams Create free Team Collectives on Stack Overflow Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most. Learn more Teams Q&A for work Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search. Learn more Jobs Companies Why Jobs? Applications Developer Story You’ve submitted an application. View all your job applications in one central place. (Senior) Full-Stack Software Engineer for 20 Minuten news platform (f/m/d) 80-10 TX Group – Zürich, Switzerland On-site and limited remote Save Save Share via email Share via Twitter Share via Facebook Report Dismiss Overview Company Developer Culture More Jobs React to this job: 0 0 0 Posted 15 days ago About this job Job type: Full-time Experience level: Senior Role: Full Stack Developer Industry: Media Company size: 501-1k people Company type: Private Remote details Employer's note: Employees expected to come to the office at least once a week. Technologies reactjsnode.jstypescriptnext.jsangular Job description Senior) Full-Stack Software Engineer for 20 Minuten news platform (f/m/d) 80-100% Thanks for checking out our opening for a Full-Stack Software Engineer at 20 Minuten, TX Group. At 20 Minuten, we love tech and are always thinking about what’s next! Trying out new things and optimizations are part of our spirit. We work hard to build and run the most-read media platform in Switzerland. We are ambitious and growing, and need to expand our team to realize the great ideas we have. What you’ll do You’ll help to evolve a platform that supports close to 6.5M unique visitors a month. Contributing to areas such as: Creating, maintaining and evolving Server and Client-side applications. Collaborating with product management, design, analytics and journalists to understand the problems we want to solve and exploring how we can solve them. Having significant decision-making power on the technologies and architecture that we use to build the platform. Supporting other team members through pair programming, code reviews, and ad-hoc assistance. Taking ownership of your code/task/role. Being proud of what you achieve, of the product, and being one of the driving forces behind always making it better. Partnering with your engineering manager to grow your team and career What you’ll bring We are looking for creative problem solvers and diverse thinkers, who are motivated to learn new things, ship new features, and pursue new and interesting challenges. People who care about culture as well as the success of the team. Our backend stack is mainly focused around NodeJS (100% TypeScript) and the frontend is mainly built using React/NextJS. However, if you’re passionate about learning new things then prior experience with NodeJS and React is not essential. Additionally You probably have 5 or more years of experience as a software engineer. You are used to collaborating closely with other engineers and product managers to become a valued member of an autonomous, cross-functional team. You love designing, implementing, and deploying services with a focus on high availability, low latency, and consistency. You are familiar with one or more frontend frameworks such as React, Angular, Vue, or Ember. You know your way around NoSQL and relational databases. You understand the importance of monitoring and are proud to manage the application in production: you build it, you run it, you love it! It’s also great if you know a bit about container orchestration (Docker, Kubernetes) What we offer International team and working environment of talented and fun people. Agile environment, top-notch tech stack!, occasional Hackathons. Opportunity to grow both professionally and personally in a stimulating environment. Excellent work-life balance and some percentage of work from home office. Our entrepreneurial environment encourages everyone to take initiative and experiment with new ideas. You’ll actively contribute to the growth of a Swiss based subsidiary. We do not accept unsolicited applications from third-party agencies. About the company TX Group Digital classifieds and traditional newsportals combined Follow your favorite companies By selecting follow, you are opting in to receive an email digest from the companies you follow. Don't worry, your information isn't shared. Follow Follow your favorite companies By selecting follow, you are opting in to receive an email digest from the companies you follow. Don't worry, your information isn't shared. Follow Benefits Flexible working hours Homeoffice possible Affordable, high-quality cantine Health management Easy Traffic connection Profit participation program Employee events Company mobile phone Gifts for years of service, retirement, marriage and birth of child Dogs allowed People Reto Welti Gilbert Bötschi Dave Cannizzaro Yannick Koechlin Learn more about TX Group More jobs at TX Group Okay, you won’t see this job anymore. Undo Front End Lead, Content Management Platform (f/m) 80-100% TX Group • Zürich, Switzerland reactjs 16d ago Okay, you won’t see this job anymore. Undo Site Reliability Engineer (f/m) 80- 100% TX Group • Zürich, Switzerland cloudamazon-web-servicespythoncdnsre 7d ago Want to get notified about new jobs at TX Group? Create a company alert Your job search status has been updated. Are you looking for a job? When you create a Developer Story, we’ll accelerate your matches and get you in front of employers ASAP. Create a Developer Story (Senior) Full-Stack Software Engineer for 20 Minuten news platform (f/m/d) 80-10 at TX Group Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Help Mobile Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Service Contact Us Cookie Settings Cookie Policy Stack Exchange Network Technology Culture & recreation Life & arts Science Professional Business API Data Blog Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram site design / logo © 2021 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa. rev 2021.11.30.40849 Stack Overflow works best with JavaScript enabled Your privacy By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy. Accept all cookies Customize settings