Portal:Biography - Wikipedia
Portal:Biography - Wikipedia Portal:Biography From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Portal maintenance status: (June 2018) This portal's subpages have been checked by an editor, and are needed. Please take care when editing, especially if using automated editing software. Learn how to update the maintenance information here. Wikipedia portal for content related to Biography Portal topics Activities Culture Geography Health History Mathematics Nature People Philosophy Religion Society Technology Random portal The Biography Portal Third Volume of a 1727 edition of Plutarch's Lives of the Noble Greeks and Romans printed by Jacob Tonson A biography, or simply bio, is a detailed description of a person's life. It involves more than just the basic facts like education, work, relationships, and death; it portrays a person's experience of these life events. Unlike a profile or curriculum vitae (résumé), a biography presents a subject's life story, highlighting various aspects of their life, including intimate details of experience, and may include an analysis of the subject's personality. Biographical works are usually non-fiction, but fiction can also be used to portray a person's life. One in-depth form of biographical coverage is called legacy writing. Works in diverse media, from literature to film, form the genre known as biography. An authorized biography is written with the permission, cooperation, and at times, participation of a subject or a subject's heirs. An autobiography is written by the person themselves, sometimes with the assistance of a collaborator or ghostwriter. (Full article...) Refresh with new selections below (purge) Featured biographies – load new batch Featured articles are displayed here, which represent some of the best content on English Wikipedia. Image 1 John de Gray or de Grey (died 18 October 1214) was an English prelate who served as Bishop of Norwich, and was elected but unconfirmed Archbishop of Canterbury. He was employed in the service of Prince John even before John became king, for which he was rewarded with a number of ecclesiastical offices, culminating in his pro forma election to Norwich in 1200. De Gray continued in royal service after his elevation to the episcopate, lending the King money and undertaking diplomatic missions on his behalf. In 1205 King John attempted to further reward de Gray with a translation to the archbishopric of Canterbury, but a disputed election process led to de Gray's selection being quashed by Pope Innocent III in 1206. Innocent consecrated Stephen Langton as archbishop against John's wishes, triggering a long dispute between the papacy and the King. The pope imposed various sanctions on England and John; at one point de Gray was one of only two bishops still legitimately holding office in England. In 1209 he became governor of Ireland for John, and spent until 1213 attempting to impose royal government on the Anglo-Norman barons and the native Irish in that country. Recalled to England to help defend against a threatened invasion by the French, de Gray then travelled to Rome to secure a papal pardon after the final settlement of John and Innocent's dispute over the bishop's abortive elevation to Canterbury. After securing his pardon de Gray was appointed Bishop of Durham, but he died on his way back to England. (Full article...) Image 2 The early life and military career of John Sidney McCain III spans the first forty-five years of his life (1936–1981). McCain's father and grandfather were admirals in the United States Navy. McCain was born on August 29, 1936, in the Panama Canal Zone, and attended many schools growing up as his family moved among naval facilities. McCain graduated from the United States Naval Academy in 1958. He married the former Carol Shepp in 1965; he adopted two children from her previous marriage and they had another child together. As a naval aviator, McCain flew attack aircraft from carriers. During the Vietnam War, he narrowly escaped death in the 1967 Forrestal fire. On his twenty-third bombing mission during Operation Rolling Thunder in October 1967, he was shot down over Hanoi and badly injured. He subsequently endured five and a half years as a prisoner of war, including periods of torture. In 1968, he refused a North Vietnamese offer of early release, because it would have meant leaving before other prisoners who had been held longer. He was released in 1973 after the Paris Peace Accords. (Full article...) Image 3 Urse d'Abetot (c.?1040 – 1108) was a Norman who followed King William I to England, and became Sheriff of Worcestershire and a royal official under him and Kings William II and Henry I. He was a native of Normandy and moved to England shortly after the Norman Conquest of England in 1066, and was appointed sheriff in about 1069. Little is known of his family in Normandy, who were not prominent. Although Urse's lord in Normandy was present at the Battle of Hastings, there is no evidence that Urse took part in the invasion of England in 1066. Urse built the earliest form of Worcester Castle in Worcester, which encroached on the cathedral cemetery there, earning him a curse from the Archbishop of York. Urse helped to put down a rebellion against King William I in 1075, and quarrelled with the Church in his county over the jurisdiction of the sheriffs. He continued in the service of William's sons after the king's death, and was appointed constable under William II and marshal under Henry I. Urse was known for his acquisitiveness, and during William II's reign was considered second only to Ranulf Flambard, another royal official, in his rapacity. Urse's son succeeded him as sheriff but was subsequently exiled, thus forfeiting the office. Through his daughter, Urse is an ancestor of the Beauchamp family, who eventually became Earls of Warwick. (Full article...) Image 4 Brooks in October 2011 Phillip Jack Brooks (born October 26, 1978), better known by the ring name CM Punk, is an American professional wrestler, actor, professional mixed martial arts commentator and retired mixed martial artist, currently signed to All Elite Wrestling (AEW). He is best known for his time in WWE, where his 434-day reign as WWE Champion stands as the sixth-longest in title history. He is also signed to Cage Fury Fighting Championships (CFFC) as a commentator. Brooks began his professional wrestling career in 1999 on the independent circuit, mainly with Ring of Honor (ROH), winning the ROH World Championship once. He signed with World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) in 2005, and won the WWE Championship twice, the World Heavyweight Championship three times, and the Intercontinental Championship and the ECW World Heavyweight Championship once each. Brooks also won the World Tag Team Championship, becoming WWE's 19th Triple Crown Champion; the fastest wrestler to achieve this feat, in 203 days. He is also the only back-to-back Money in the Bank winner, has headlined several WWE pay-per-view events, won Superstar of the Year at the 2011 Slammy Awards, and was voted Wrestler of the Year in 2011 and 2012 by readers of Pro Wrestling Illustrated. After becoming disillusioned with WWE, Brooks acrimoniously departed the company and retired from professional wrestling in 2014. After much speculation, he eventually returned and joined AEW in 2021. (Full article...) Image 5 Jolie at the Global Summit to End Sexual Violence in Conflict in 2014 Angelina Jolie DCMG (/d?o??li?/; née Voight, formerly Jolie Pitt; born June 4, 1975) is an American actress and filmmaker. The recipient of numerous accolades, including an Academy Award and three Golden Globe Awards, she has been named Hollywood's highest-paid actress multiple times. Jolie made her screen debut as a child alongside her father, Jon Voight, in Lookin' to Get Out (1982), and her film career began in earnest a decade later with the low-budget production Cyborg 2 (1993), followed by her first leading role in a major film, Hackers (1995). She starred in the critically acclaimed biographical cable films George Wallace (1997) and Gia (1998), and won an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for her performance in the 1999 drama Girl, Interrupted. Her starring role as the video game heroine Lara Croft in Lara Croft: Tomb Raider (2001) established her as a leading Hollywood actress. She continued her action-star career with Mr. & Mrs. Smith (2005), Wanted (2008), Salt (2010), and The Tourist (2010), and received critical acclaim for her performances in the dramas A Mighty Heart (2007) and Changeling (2008), the latter of which earned her a nomination for an Academy Award for Best Actress. Her biggest commercial success came with the fantasy picture Maleficent (2014). She is also known for her voice role in the animation film series Kung Fu Panda (2008–present). Jolie has also directed and written several war dramas, namely In the Land of Blood and Honey (2011), Unbroken (2014), and First They Killed My Father (2017). (Full article...) Image 6 Frontispiece from Modern Cookery for Private Families, Acton's best known work Eliza Acton (17 April 1799 – 13 February 1859) was an English food writer and poet who produced one of Britain's first cookery books aimed at the domestic reader, Modern Cookery for Private Families. The book introduced the now-universal practice of listing ingredients and giving suggested cooking times for each recipe. It included the first recipes in English for Brussels sprouts and for spaghetti. It also contains the first recipe for what Acton called "Christmas pudding"; the dish was normally called plum pudding, recipes for which had appeared previously, although Acton was the first to put the name and recipe together. Acton was born in 1799 in Sussex. She was raised in Suffolk where she ran a girls' boarding school before spending time in France. On her return to England in 1826 she published a collection of poetry and released her cookery book in 1845, aimed at middle class families. Written in an engaging prose, the book was well received by reviewers. It was reprinted within the year and several editions followed until 1918, when Longman, the book's publisher, took the decision not to reprint. In 1857 Acton published The English Bread-Book for Domestic Use, a more academic and studious work than Modern Cookery. The work consisted of a history of bread-making in England, a study of European methods of baking and numerous recipes. (Full article...) Image 7 Gretzky in 2006 Wayne Douglas Gretzky CC (/??r?tski/; born January 26, 1961) is a Canadian former professional ice hockey player and former head coach. He played 20 seasons in the National Hockey League (NHL) for four teams from 1979 to 1999. Nicknamed "the Great One", he has been called the greatest hockey player ever by many sportswriters, players, the NHL itself, and by The Hockey News, based on extensive surveys of hockey writers, ex-players, general managers and coaches. Gretzky is the leading goal scorer, assist producer and point scorer in NHL history, and has more assists in his career than any other player scored total points. He is the only NHL player to total over 200 points in one season, a feat he accomplished four times. In addition, Gretzky tallied over 100 points in 16 professional seasons, 14 of them consecutive. At the time of his retirement in 1999, he held 61 NHL records: 40 regular season records, 15 playoff records, and 6 All-Star records. Born and raised in Brantford, Ontario, Canada, Gretzky honed his skills at a backyard rink and regularly played minor hockey at a level far above his peers. Despite his unimpressive size and strength, Gretzky's intelligence, stamina, and reading of the game were unrivaled. He was adept at dodging checks from opposing players, and consistently anticipated where the puck was going to be and executed the right move at the right time. Gretzky became known for setting up behind his opponent's net, an area that was nicknamed "Gretzky's office". (Full article...) Image 8 William Sanders c. 1916–17 Lieutenant Commander William Edward Sanders, VC, DSO (7 February 1883 – 14 August 1917) was a First World War New Zealand recipient of the Victoria Cross (VC), the highest award for gallantry "in the face of the enemy" that could be awarded to British and Commonwealth forces at the time. Born in Auckland, Sanders took up a seafaring career in 1899. He initially worked aboard steamships before transferring to sailing ships to enhance his career prospects. Sanders earned a master's certificate in late 1914, following the outbreak of the First World War. He then served aboard troopships in the Merchant Navy until April 1916, when he was commissioned in the Royal Naval Reserve. He completed his military training in the United Kingdom, after which he served aboard Helgoland, a Q-ship that operated against German submarines. His performance on his first two patrols earned him his own command, HMS Prize, in February 1917. (Full article...) Image 9 Emery at the Chicago Blackhawks' 2013 Stanley Cup parade Raymond Robert Emery (né Nichols; September 28, 1982 – July 15, 2018) was a Canadian professional ice hockey goaltender who played in the National Hockey League (NHL) for eleven seasons. Emery was chosen 99th overall by the Ottawa Senators in the 2001 NHL Entry Draft. During the 2006–07 season, he was a member of the Senators team that reached the Stanley Cup Finals, the first appearance in the finals for the modern Senators' franchise. He won a Stanley Cup championship with the Chicago Blackhawks in 2013. In 2013, Emery won the William M. Jennings Trophy along with teammate Corey Crawford, awarded to the goaltender or goaltenders who give up the fewest goals in the season. Emery was a two-time Bill Masterton Memorial Trophy finalist for his dedication and perseverance. His teammates and fans often referred to him as "Razor" or "Sugar Ray" for his aggressive playing style. (Full article...) Image 10 Engraving of Bonnet from A General History of the Pyrates (1724) Stede Bonnet (1688 – 10 December 1718) was an early eighteenth-century Barbadian pirate, sometimes called "The Gentleman Pirate" because he was a moderately wealthy land-owner before turning to a life of crime. Bonnet was born into a wealthy English family on the island of Barbados, and inherited the family estate after his father's death in 1694. In 1709, he married Mary Allamby, and engaged in some level of militia service. Because of marital problems, and despite his lack of sailing experience, Bonnet decided he should turn to piracy in the summer of 1717. He bought a sailing vessel, named it Revenge, and travelled with his paid crew along the Eastern Seaboard of what is now the United States, capturing other vessels and burning other Barbadian ships. Bonnet set sail for Nassau, Bahamas, to the haven for pirates known as the "pirates' republic", but he was seriously wounded en route during an encounter with a Spanish warship. After arriving in Nassau, Bonnet met Edward Teach, the infamous pirate Blackbeard. Incapable of leading his crew, Bonnet temporarily ceded his ship's command to Blackbeard. Before separating in December 1717, Blackbeard and Bonnet plundered and captured merchant ships along the East Coast. After Bonnet failed to capture the Protestant Caesar, his crew abandoned him to join Blackbeard aboard the Queen Anne's Revenge. Bonnet stayed on Blackbeard's ship as a guest, and did not command a crew again until summer 1718, when he was pardoned by North Carolina governor Charles Eden and received clearance to go privateering against Spanish shipping. Bonnet was tempted to resume his piracy, but did not want to lose his pardon, so he adopted the alias "Captain Thomas" and changed his ship's name to Royal James. He had returned to piracy by July 1718. (Full article...) Image 11 Stelmach in 2009 Edward Michael Stelmach AOE (/?st?lmæk/; born May 11, 1951) is a Canadian politician and served as the 13th premier of Alberta, from 2006 to 2011. The grandson of Ukrainian immigrants, Stelmach was born and raised on a farm near Lamont and speaks fluent Ukrainian. He spent his entire pre-political adult life as a farmer, except for some time spent studying at the University of Alberta. His first foray into politics was a 1986 municipal election, when he was elected to Lamont County council. A year into his term, he was appointed reeve. He continued in this position until his entry into provincial politics. In the 1993 provincial election, Stelmach was elected as the Member of the Legislative Assembly (MLA) for Vegreville-Viking (later Fort Saskatchewan-Vegreville). A Progressive Conservative, he served in the cabinets of Ralph Klein—at various times holding the portfolios of Intergovernmental Relations, Transportation, Infrastructure, and Agriculture, Food, and Rural Development—where he developed a reputation as a low-key politician who avoided the limelight. When Klein resigned the party's leadership in 2006, Stelmach was among the first to present his candidature to replace him. After a third-place finish on the first ballot of the leadership race, he won an upset second ballot victory over former provincial treasurer Jim Dinning. (Full article...) Image 12 Teresa Cristina at age 66, 1888 Dona Teresa Cristina delle Due Sicilie (14 March 1822 – 28 December 1889), nicknamed "the Mother of the Brazilians", was the Empress consort of Emperor Dom Pedro II of Brazil, who reigned from 1831 to 1889. Born a Princess of the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies in present-day southern Italy, she was the daughter of King Don Francesco I (Francis I) of the Italian branch of the House of Bourbon and his wife Maria Isabel (Maria Isabella). It was long believed by historians that the Princess was raised in an ultra-conservative, intolerant atmosphere which resulted in a timid and unassertive character in public and an ability to be contented with very little materially or emotionally. Recent studies revealed a more complex character, who despite having respected the social norms of the era, was able to assert a limited independence due to her strongly opinionated personality as well as her interest in learning, sciences and culture. The Princess was married by proxy to Pedro II in 1843. Her spouse's expectations had been raised when a portrait was presented that depicted Teresa Cristina as an idealized beauty, but he was displeased by his bride's plain looks upon their first meeting later that year. Despite a cold beginning, the couple's relationship improved as time passed, due primarily to Teresa Cristina's patience, kindness, generosity and simplicity. These traits also helped her win the hearts of the Brazilian people, and her distance from political controversies shielded her from criticism. She also sponsored archaeological studies in Italy and Italian immigration to Brazil. (Full article...) Image 13 Healy in 1882 Patrick Francis Healy SJ (February 27, 1834 – January 10, 1910) was an American Catholic priest and Jesuit who was an influential president of Georgetown University, becoming known as its "second founder". The university's flagship building, Healy Hall, bears his name. Though self-identifying and largely passing as White, Healy would be posthumously recognized as the first Black American to become a Jesuit, earn a Ph.D., and become the president of a predominantly White university. Healy was born in Georgia to a family that produced many Catholic leaders. His mother was one-eighth Black and his father was a White Irish emigrant. Under Georgia law, his father technically owned his wife and children as slaves. Healy and his siblings were sent north by their father to be educated. Healy continued his higher education at the Catholic University of Louvain, where he received his doctorate in philosophy in 1864. He returned to America and started as the chair of philosophy at Georgetown University. (Full article...) Image 14 Earl William "Madman" Muntz (January 3, 1914 – June 21, 1987) was an American businessman and engineer who sold and promoted cars and consumer electronics in the United States from the 1930s until his death in 1987. He was a pioneer in television commercials with his oddball "Madman" persona – an alter ego who generated publicity with his unusual costumes, stunts, and outrageous claims. Muntz also pioneered car stereos by creating the Muntz Stereo-Pak, better known as the 4-track cartridge, a predecessor to the 8-track cartridge developed by Lear Industries. He invented the practice that came to be known as Muntzing, which involved simplifying otherwise complicated electronic devices. Muntz produced and marketed the first black-and-white television receivers to sell for less than $100, and created one of the earliest functional widescreen projection TVs. He was credited with coining the abbreviation "TV" for television, although the term had earlier been in use in call letters for stations such as WCBS-TV. A high school dropout, Muntz made fortunes by selling automobiles, TV receivers, and car stereos and tapes. A 1968 Los Angeles Times article noted that in one year he sold $72 million worth of cars, that five years later he sold $55 million worth of TV receivers, and that in 1967 he sold $30 million worth of car stereos and tapes. (Full article...) Image 15 Lakoba in 1931 Nestor Apollonovich Lakoba (1 May 1893 – 28 December 1936) was an Abkhaz communist leader. Lakoba helped establish Bolshevik power in Abkhazia in the aftermath of the Russian Revolution, and served as the head of Abkhazia after its conquest by the Bolshevik Red Army in 1921. While in power, Lakoba saw that Abkhazia was initially given autonomy within the USSR as the Socialist Soviet Republic of Abkhazia. Though nominally a part of the Georgian Soviet Socialist Republic with a special status of "union republic," the Abkhaz SSR was effectively a separate republic, made possible by Lakoba's close relationship with Joseph Stalin. Lakoba successfully opposed the extension of collectivization of Abkhazia, though in return Lakoba was forced to accept a downgrade of Abkhazia's status to that of an autonomous republic within the Georgian SSR. Popular in Abkhazia due to his ability to resonate with the people, Lakoba maintained a close relationship with Stalin, who would frequently holiday in Abkhazia during the 1920s and 1930s. This relationship saw Lakoba become the rival of one of Stalin's other confidants, Lavrentiy Beria, who was in charge of the Transcaucasian Socialist Federative Soviet Republic, which included Georgia. During a visit to Beria in Tbilisi in December 1936, Lakoba was poisoned, allowing Beria to consolidate his control over Abkhazia and all of Georgia and to discredit Lakoba and his family as enemies of the state. Rehabilitated after the death of Stalin in 1953, Lakoba is now revered as a national hero in Abkhazia. (Full article...) More featured articles Did you know... - show different entries ... that Caleb Grafton Roberts, head of the Second World War Allied Intelligence Bureau, was a highway engineer before the war? ... that Japanese artist Macoto Takahashi stopped making girls' comics in the 1960s because he considered himself incapable of adopting the point of view of a girl? ... that Max Wallraf replaced Paul Löbe as President of the Reichstag for a few months in 1924–25? ... that the termite Macrotermes michaelseni is considered to be an ecosystem engineer in the Okavango Delta in Botswana? ... that until the Salary Grab Act was passed in 1873, President Ulysses S. Grant earned the same salary as George Washington did 80 years earlier? ... that the writer of the hymn "Angel Voices, Ever Singing" banned it from being published with a tune composed by Arthur Sullivan? ... that writer Mark Twain frequently used Cooper station to meet with a friend? ... that Pope Francis's apostolic exhortation Querida Amazonia does not explicitly endorse married Catholic priests, despite being called for by the Amazon synod? ... that after Bishop Sycamore High School lost a televised football game 58–0, it was reported that the school did not teach its students? ... that at the suggestion of writer and translator Cecilia Bååth-Holmberg, Mother's Day was celebrated for the first time in Sweden in 1919? ... that Dileeni Daniel-Selvaratnam, Governor of Anguilla, attended her own swearing-in ceremony remotely due to quarantine restrictions? ... that Edward Hewitt Nichols, the first leader of Hong Kong's Country Parks administrations, oversaw the designation of 40 per cent of the territory as parkland? General images The following are images from various biography-related articles on Wikipedia. Image 1Saint Augustine of Hippo wrote Confessions, the first Western autobiography ever written, around 400. Portrait by Philippe de Champaigne, 17th century. (from Autobiography) Image 2James Boswell wrote what many consider to be the first modern biography, The Life of Samuel Johnson, in 1791. (from Biography) Image 3Cover of the first English edition of Benjamin Franklin's autobiography, 1793 (from Autobiography) Image 4Third Volume of a 1727 edition of Plutarch's Lives of the Noble Greeks and Romans printed by Jacob Tonson (from Biography) Image 5John Foxe's The Book of Martyrs, was one of the earliest English-language biographies. (from Biography) Image 6Einhard as scribe (from Biography) Image 7Eminent Victorians set the standard for 20th century biographical writing, when it was published in 1918. (from Biography) Image 8A scene from the Baburnama (from Autobiography) Need help? Do you have a question about Wikipedia biographical content that you can't find the answer to? Consider asking it at the Wikipedia reference desk. Get involved For editor resources and to collaborate with other editors on improving Wikipedia's Biography-related articles, see WikiProject Biography. Selected portrait Image 1 Daniel O'ConnellImage: Alfred Hoffy; Restoration: Lise Broer An image of Daniel O'Connell (1775–1847), captioned "The Champion of Liberty". O'Connell was an Irish political leader in the first half of the nineteenth century. He campaigned for Catholic Emancipation—the right for Roman Catholics to sit in the Westminster Parliament, denied for over 100 years—and repeal of the Act of Union which combined Ireland and Great Britain. King George III had disallowed Catholics from sitting in Parliament, saying that it would breach his coronation oath to act as protector of Protestantism. Through O'Connell's efforts, Catholic Emancipation was finally passed by Parliament on 24 March 1829. More selected portraits Image 2 George IVArtist: Sir Thomas Lawrence An oil on canvas portrait of George IV of the United Kingdom as the Prince Regent, by Sir Thomas Lawrence. In 1814, Lord Stewart, who had been appointed ambassador in Vienna and was a previous client of Thomas Lawrence, wanted to commission a portrait by him of the Prince Regent. He arranged that Lawrence should be presented to the Prince Regent at a levée. Soon after, the Prince visited Lawrence at his studio in Russell Square. Lawrence wrote to his brother that: To crown this honour, [he] engag'd to sit to me at one today and after a successful sitting of two hours, has just left me and comes again tomorrow and the next day. More selected portraits Image 3 Cary GrantPhotograph: RKO publicity photographer; Edit: Chris Woodrich Actor Cary Grant (1904–86) in a publicity photo for Suspicion (1940). Known for his transatlantic accent, debonair demeanor and "dashing good looks", Grant is considered one of classic Hollywood's definitive leading men. During his 34-year career he acted in over 50 films, including The Eagle and the Hawk, Bringing Up Baby, and North by Northwest. More selected portraits Image 4 Moshe Ya'alonPhotograph: Reuven Kapuscinski Moshe Ya'alon (b. 1950) is an Israeli politician and current Defense Minister. Ya'alon was called up as a reserve during the Yom Kippur War in 1973. After the war, he rejoined the army as an officer and rose through the ranks, leading the Sayeret Matkal commando unit, the Paratroopers Brigade, and Military Intelligence. In 2002 he was appointed Chief of Staff of the Israel Defense Forces, resigning in 2005. Since 2013 he has served as the country's Defense Minister. More selected portraits Image 5 Jeremy DoylePhoto: Sport the Library Jeremy Doyle (1983–2011) was an Australian wheelchair basketball player. Left paraplegic after a car accident, he was classified as a 1 point player. While representing his country Doyle won two gold medals, first at the 2009 Paralympic World Cup and again at the 2010 Wheelchair Basketball World Championship. More selected portraits Image 6 T?y? MiyatakePhoto credit: Ansel Adams Portrait of T?y? Miyatake (1896–1979) by Ansel Adams, 1943. Miyatake was a Japanese American internee and camp photographer at Manzanar War Relocation Camp during World War II. A studio photographer prior to his internment, Miyatake started taking photos at Manzanar with an improvised camera fashioned from parts he smuggled into the camp. His activity was discovered after nine months, but camp director Ralph Merritt supported the endeavor and allowed him to have his stored studio equipment shipped to the camp. Miyatake met and befriended Adams at the camp and in 1979 they published a book together, Two Views of Manzanar. More selected portraits Image 7 Alice PaulPhotograph credit: Harris & Ewing; restored by Adam Cuerden Alice Paul was an American suffragist, feminist, and women's-rights activist, and one of the main leaders and strategists of the campaign for the Nineteenth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, which prohibits sex discrimination in the right to vote. Along with Lucy Burns and others, she strategized events such as the Woman Suffrage Procession and the Silent Sentinels as part of the successful campaign that resulted in the amendment's passage on August 18, 1920. This photograph of Paul was taken in 1915 by the Harris & Ewing photographic studio in Washington, D.C. More selected portraits Image 8 Lillian GishPhoto credit: Bain News Service A portrait of Lillian Gish from 1921. Gish was one of the first female movie stars, called "The First Lady of the Silent Screen", starting in 1912 and continuing to appear in films until 1987. The American Film Institute named Gish 17th among the greatest female stars of all time and awarded her a Life Achievement Award, making her the only recipient who was a major figure in the silent era. Remarkably, she never won an Academy Award for her work, although she did receive a Special Academy Award in 1971. More selected portraits Image 9 Ksenia SemenovaPhoto: Bolshoi Sport Ksenia Semenova (b. 1992) is a Russian artistic gymnast. She was the 2007 World Champion on the uneven bars. At the 2008 European Championships, she was a member of the silver-medal-winning Russian team, as well as champion on the uneven bars and the balance beam. She followed this up by winning the all-around championship at the 2009 European Championships and was part of the gold-medal Russian team at the 2010 European and 2010 World Championships. Injuries have prevented her from competing since then. More selected portraits Image 10 John Henry NewmanPainting: John Everett Millais John Henry Newman (1801–90) was a British cleric and leader in the Oxford Movement, a group of Anglicans who wished to return the Church of England to many Catholic beliefs and forms of worship traditional in the medieval times. In 1845 Newman converted to Catholicism, eventually rising to cardinal. More selected portraits Image 11 Peter LevyPhoto credit: John Byford Peter Levy (b. 1955) is a British television and radio presenter, currently host of the BBC regional news programme Look North, broadcast from Hull to East Yorkshire and Lincolnshire. He also hosts The Peter Levy Show on BBC Radio Humberside. Born in South West England, Levy moved to Yorkshire in his teens. After a stint in London as an actor, during which time he appeared on Man About the House, he returned to Yorkshire in 1975 to become a disc jockey before joining Look North in 1987. More selected portraits Image 12 David SuchetPhoto credit: Phil Chambers A portrait of David Suchet OBE, an English actor best known for his television portrayal of Agatha Christie's Hercule Poirot in the television series Agatha Christie's Poirot. For this role, he earned a 1991 British Academy Television Award (BAFTA) nomination. In preparation for the role he says that he read every novel and short story, and compiled an extensive file on Poirot. More selected portraits Image 13 Agnes MilowkaPhoto: James Axford Agnes Milowka (1981–2011) was an Australian technical diver, underwater photographer, author, and cave explorer. She gained international recognition for extending cave systems across Australia and in Florida, and as a public speaker and author on the subjects of diving and maritime archaeology. She participated in National Geographic and Discovery Channel expeditions. Her passion led her to act as a stunt double on Andrew Wight's feature film Sanctum and to participate in shooting real scenery in Mount Gambier caves, where she drowned just a few weeks after the movie's premiere. More selected portraits Image 14 Dilma RousseffPhoto: Agência Brasil Dilma Rousseff is the 36th and current President of Brazil, in office since 1 January 2011. She is the first woman to hold the office. Previously she was Chief of Staff to the President of Brazil, serving under President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, from 2005 to 2010. The daughter of a Bulgarian entrepreneur, she is an economist by training and co-founder of the Democratic Labour Party. She served as Da Silva's Minister of Energy and became Chief of Staff after José Dirceu's resignation amidst scandal. She was elected the presidency in a run-off election on 31 October 2010. More selected portraits Image 15 Horatio Nelson, 1st Viscount NelsonPainting: Lemuel Francis Abbott Horatio Nelson, 1st Viscount Nelson, (1758–1805) was a British flag officer who served in the Royal Navy, particularly during the Napoleonic Wars. Born in Norfolk, Nelson entered the navy at age 13, and in 1778 he obtained his own command. During his career he suffered from seasickness, and by the time of the Trafalgar Campaign he had already lost his right arm and sight in an eye in battles in Santa Cruz de Tenerife and Corsica, respectively. In 1805 he took over the Cádiz blockade, and on 21 October of that year Nelson's fleet engaged the Franco-Spanish one at the Battle of Trafalgar. The battle was a British victory, but during the action Nelson was fatally wounded by a French sharpshooter. Numerous monuments, such as Nelson's Column, have been created in his memory, and his signal "England expects that every man will do his duty" has been widely quoted, paraphrased and referenced. More selected portraits edit On this day – November 29 Births 1832 - Louisa May Alcott, American novelist (d. 1888) 1898 - C. S. Lewis, Irish writer (d. 1963) 1932 - Jacques Chirac, President of France (d. 2019) (pictured) 1955 - Howie Mandel, Canadian actor 1964 - Don Cheadle, American actor Deaths 1643 - Claudio Monteverdi, Italian composer (b. 1567) 1979 - Zeppo Marx, American actor and comedian (b. 1901) 1981 - Natalie Wood, American actress (b. 1938) 1986 - Cary Grant, British-born American actor (b. 1904) 2001 - George Harrison, British singer, guitarist and songwriter (b. 1943) More of today's anniversaries... In the news 25 November 2021 – 2021 Solomon Islands unrest Opposition leader Matthew Wale calls on the prime minister and his government to resign. (Solomon Times) 24 November 2021 – Two allies of Russian opposition leader and activist Alexei Navalny leave Russia, becoming the latest people to do so after many of Navalny's allies left the country in September. The two people are identified as a woman who helped Navalny represent his organization and a lawyer who said that he was under pressure. (Reuters) Sweden's Riksdag votes for Social Democrat leader Magdalena Andersson to become the first female prime minister of Sweden. However, Andersson resigned several hours later, after the Green Party quit the coalition. The Greens quit the coalition after the opposition budget was approved by the Riksdag. (Radio Sweden) (Reuters) 22 November 2021 – Aftermath of the 2021 Venezuelan regional elections Opposition leader Juan Guaidó calls for unity and to rebuild the opposition's fragmented strategy, after suffering a heavy loss at the regional elections and losing 20 gubernatorial races to the ruling United Socialist Party of Venezuela. (Reuters) 21 November 2021 – 2021 Chilean general election Far-right populist José Antonio Kast of the Republican Party and former student protest leader Gabriel Boric of the left-wing coalition Apruebo Dignidad qualify for the second round, after winning 27.94% and 25.75% of the vote respectively. The second round will take place on December 19. (Reuters) 21 November 2021 – Aftermath of the October 2021 Sudanese coup d'état Abdalla Hamdok is reinstated as Prime Minister of Sudan following a political agreement with coup leader Abdel Fattah al-Burhan. (BBC News) Updated: 21:33, 28 November 2021 edit Quote of the week "Blue Moon, now I'm no longer alone, without a dream in my heart, without a love of my own." — Lorenz Hart Blue Moon, 1934 Archive – More from Wikiquote edit Related portals Law Politics Literature Music Science Sports Military Religion Islam Christianity LGBT Hinduism Judaism Human sexuality Categories Select [?] to view subcategories Biography (genre) Biography awards Biographers Biography journals Biographical museums Oral history Person databases The Biography Channel shows Biographical works People People by association People by behavior People by event People by gender People by language People by medical or psychological condition People by nationality People by occupation People by organization People by location People by political orientation People by religion People by role People by sexuality People by status People by time Categories by individual People categories by type Lists of people Outlines of people Award winners Bibliographies of people Biography (genre) Classification of people Personal coats of arms Depictions of people Fictional characters Legendary people Metaphors referring to people Articles about multiple people Mythological people Twin people People stubs Wikipedia categories named after people edit Recognized content Featured articles 1937 tour of Germany by the Duke and Duchess of Windsor DJ AM Aaliyah Lazarus Aaronson Abd al-Malik ibn Marwan Abu Nidal Chinua Achebe Eliza Acton John Adair Amy Adams Doc Adams John Adams Samuel Adams Nick Adenhart Áedán mac Gabráin Ælfheah of Canterbury Ælle of Sussex Æthelbald of Mercia Æthelbald, King of Wessex Æthelberht, King of Wessex Æthelberht of Kent Æthelflæd Æthelred I, King of Wessex Æthelred, Lord of the Mercians Æthelred of Mercia Æthelstan A Æthelstan Æthelwold ætheling Æthelwulf, King of Wessex Ben Affleck Afonso, Prince Imperial of Brazil Sadruddin Aga Khan Jonathan Agnew Spiro Agnew Ahmose I Sonam Kapoor Mukhtar al-Thaqafi Albert, Prince Consort Prince Albert Victor, Duke of Clarence and Avondale Alboin Leelah Alcorn Aldfrith of Northumbria Buzz Aldrin Alexander II Zabinas Alexander of Lincoln Raymond Pace Alexander Alexander of Greece Alexandra of Denmark Hadji Ali Princess Alice of Battenberg Alice in Chains Charles-Valentin Alkan Gubby Allen Ike Altgens Luís Alves de Lima e Silva, Duke of Caxias Tommy Amaker Herman Vandenburg Ames Grand Duchess Anastasia Nikolaevna of Russia Anna Anderson William T. Anderson Mário de Andrade Maya Angelou Anna of East Anglia Anne of Denmark Anne, Queen of Great Britain Mary Anning Anthony Roll Antiochus XII Dionysus Marshall Applewhite Yasser Arafat Harriet Arbuthnot Archimedes Princess Louise, Duchess of Argyll Lilias Armstrong Neil Armstrong Chester A. Arthur King Arthur Albert Stanley, 1st Baron Ashfield Shooting of James Ashley Elias Ashmole Andjar Asmara Aspasia Asser Asylum confinement of Christopher Smart Charles Atangana Atlanersa Attalus I James T. Aubrey Audioslave Augustine of Canterbury Augustus Alice Ayres Ba C?t Kroger Babb Walter Bache Alexis Bachelot Peter Badcoe Ivan Bagramyan Hobey Baker James Robert Baker Thomas Baker (aviator) Vidya Balan Baldwin of Forde Christian Bale Albert Ball John Balmer George Calvert, 1st Baron Baltimore Honoré de Balzac Eric Bana Bronwyn Bancroft Edward Mitchell Bannister Ann Bannon Alexandre Banza Joseph Barbera John Barbirolli Alben W. Barkley William Barley Sid Barnes Sid Barnes with the Australian cricket team in England in 1948 Natalie Clifford Barney Nicky Barr Richard Barre John Barrymore Basiliscus Cyril Bassett Arnold Bax Thomas F. Bayard Hugh Beadle The Beatles Felice Beato Princess Beatrice of the United Kingdom Kevin Beattie Otto Becher J. C. W. Beckham Thomas Beecham Isabella Beeton Bix Beiderbecke Mary Bell (aviator) Jean Bellette Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky and the Belyayev circle Judah P. Benjamin Shelton Benjamin William Sterndale Bennett Beorhtwulf of Mercia Moe Berg Gottlob Berger Hector Berlioz Frank Berryman John W. Beschter Biddenden Maids Big Star Steve Biko Golding Bird Norman Birkett, 1st Baron Birkett Georges Bizet Black Francis Blackbeard Arthur Blackburn Luke P. Blackburn Frank Bladin James G. Blaine Thomas Blamey Sophie Blanchard Enid Blyton Bodashtart R. V. C. Bodley Barthélemy Boganda Niels Bohr Jean Bolikango John F. Bolt Margaret Bondfield Stede Bonnet William Bonville, 1st Baron Bonville Daniel Boone Brian Booth William Borah Carsten Borchgrevink Frank Borman Bernard Bosanquet (cricketer) Oliver Bosbyshell Harriet Bosse William Bostock Horatio Bottomley Adrian Boult Matthew Boulton Luc Bourdon David Bowie James Bowie William D. Boyce James E. Boyd (scientist) Juan Davis Bradburn Bessie Braddock Guy Bradley William O'Connell Bradley Don Bradman Don Bradman with the Australian cricket team in England in 1948 Caroline Brady (philologist) Lester Brain Joel Brand William M. Branham John C. Breckinridge Political career of John C. Breckinridge Matthew Brettingham Eric Brewer (ice hockey) William Brill (RAAF officer) Benjamin Britten Isaac Brock Martin Brodeur Neil Brooks Bill Brown (cricketer) Donald Forrester Brown Jesse L. Brown John Y. Brown (politician, born 1835) William Robinson Brown Raymond Brownell Stanley Bruce Steve Bruce William Bruce (architect) William Speirs Bruce Avery Brundage Louise Bryant Martin Bucer Humphrey Stafford, 1st Duke of Buckingham Simon Bolivar Buckner David Hillhouse Buel (priest) William Burges Guy Burgess Burke and Hare murders Robert Burnell Macfarlane Burnet Henry Cornelius Burnett Henry Burrell (admiral) William Henry Bury The Bus Uncle Alan Bush James Wood Bush Vannevar Bush Josephine Butler Pedro Álvares Cabral Cædwalla of Wessex Cai Lun William de St-Calais William Calcraft John C. Calhoun John Calvin Marjorie Cameron Elizabeth Canning Richard Cantillon Georg Cantor Mike Capel Rudolf Caracciola Neville Cardus Mariah Carey Caroline of Ansbach Charles Carroll the Settler Rachel Carson Rudolph Cartier Nancy Cartwright Finn M. W. Caspersen Carlos Castillo Armas Robert Catesby Catherine de' Medici Ceawlin of Wessex James Chadwick Roger B. Chaffee Neville Chamberlain Rise of Neville Chamberlain Happy Chandler Charlie Chaplin Percy Chapman Ian Chappell Charles I of England Charles I of Anjou Charles II of England Jessica Chastain Harry Chauvel Robert de Chesney V. Gordon Childe Choe Bu Frédéric Chopin Priyanka Chopra Murray Chotiner Chrisye Colley Cibber Clarence 13X Wesley Clark Dudley Clarke Rebecca Clarke (composer) Clement of Dunblane Cleopatra Death of Cleopatra Cleopatra Selene of Syria Grover Cleveland Henry Clifford, 10th Baron Clifford Kim Clijsters Cliff Clinkscales Hillary Clinton Harry Cobby Jane Cobden Coenred of Mercia Coenwulf of Mercia Adrian Cole (RAAF officer) Paul Collingwood A. E. J. Collins Martha Layne Collins Michael Collins (astronaut) Bert Combs James B. Conant Constantine II of Scotland Learie Constantine Henry Conwell William Cooley Calvin Coolidge Bradley Cooper D. B. Cooper Gary Cooper John Sherman Cooper Edward Drinker Cope William de Corbeil Richard Cordray Walter de Coutances Stan Coveleski Walter de Coventre Noël Coward William Cragh Ian Craig Stephen Crane Thomas Cranmer Jack Crawford (cricketer) O. G. S. Crawford Tom Crean (explorer) Dick Cresswell Thomas Crisp John J. Crittenden Ben Crosby C. R. M. F. Cruttwell Andrew Cunningham, 1st Viscount Cunningham of Hyndhope Urse d'Abetot Roderic Dallas Damageplan Edward Thomas Daniell Richard Dannatt Charles Darwin Homer Davenport Phillip Davey David I of Scotland Elizabeth David Harold Davidson Randall Davidson Russell T Davies S. O. Davies George Andrew Davis Jr. Jefferson Davis Emily Davison John Day (printer) Claude Debussy Frederick Delius Demosthenes Bill Denny Tom Derrick Joseph Desha Hermann Detzner Deusdedit of Canterbury Emily Dickinson John Diefenbaker Diocletian Walt Disney Benjamin Disraeli D. Djajakusuma Djedkare Isesi Mom?ilo ?uji? Steve Dodd Charles Domery Domitian Donnchadh, Earl of Carrick James A. Doonan John Doubleday (restorer) Alec Douglas-Home John Douglas (architect) Marjory Stoneman Douglas Theodore Komnenos Doukas Neal Dow Roy Dowling Nick Drake Uroš Drenovi? Tom Driberg Montague Druitt Peter Drummond (RAF officer) Vance Drummond W. E. B. Du Bois Du Fu Thích Qu?ng ??c Charles Duke Tim Duncan Bud Dunn Kirsten Dunst Don Dunstan Pavle ?uriši? Killing of Muhammad al-Durrah Bob Dylan Eadbald of Kent Ealdred (archbishop of York) Eardwulf of Northumbria John Early (educator) Bobby Eaton Brian Eaton Charles Eaton (RAAF officer) Isabelle Eberhardt Ecgberht, King of Wessex Adam Eckfeldt Edmund I Edward II of England Edward III of England Edward VI Edward VII Edward VIII Edward the Elder Duncan Edwards Henry Edwards (entomologist) Monroe Edwards Michael Francis Egan Jürgen Ehlers Edward Elgar Elizabeth I Elizabeth II Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother Thomas Ellison Ernest Emerson Ray Emery William Hayden English Epaminondas Antiochus XI Epiphanes Ernest Augustus, King of Hanover Thomas Erpingham William Etty Demetrius III Eucaerus Leonhard Euler Antiochus X Eusebes David Evans (RAAF officer) Edmund Evans Hiram Wesley Evans Peter Evans (swimmer) Exhumation and reburial of Richard III of England Neil Hamilton Fairley Family of Gediminas Bernard Fanning Richie Farmer Ray Farquharson Adolfo Farsari Gabriel Fauré Guy Fawkes William Feiner Bob Feller Percy Fender Enrico Fermi Kathleen Ferrier Richard Feynman Nikita Filatov Millard Fillmore John FitzWalter, 2nd Baron FitzWalter Zelda Fitzgerald Pain fitzJohn Five Go Down to the Sea? Ian Fleming Ernie Fletcher Murder of Yvonne Fletcher Theoren Fleury Gilbert Foliot Joseph B. Foraker Wendell Ford George Formby George Formby Sr Georg Forster George Fox Terry Fox Rakoto Frah Anne Frank Ursula Franklin Frederick the Great Frederick III, German Emperor Robin Friday Caspar David Friedrich John Frusciante Florence Fuller Margaret Fuller Melville Fuller Karl Aloys zu Fürstenberg Dave Gallaher Ronnie Lee Gardner James A. Garfield Tyrone Garland Robert Garran James Garrard Ragnar Garrett William Garrow Ben Gascoigne Jacob Gens Geoffrey (archbishop of York) George I of Great Britain George I of Greece George II of Great Britain George III George IV George V George VI Prince George of Denmark Eddie Gerard Gerard (archbishop of York) Lisa del Giocondo Bobby Gibbes Stella Gibbons Josiah Willard Gibbs William Gibson John Gielgud W. S. Gilbert Adam Gilchrist Arthur Gilligan Nicolo Giraud Hannah Glasse John Glenn Harry Glicken Prince William, Duke of Gloucester Stanley Goble Godsmack Robert Goff, Baron Goff of Chieveley Vincent van Gogh Emma Goldman Michael Gomez E. Urner Goodman George Gosse George H. D. Gossip Arthur Gould (rugby union) Chris Gragg Otto Graham Percy Grainger Rachel Chiesley, Lady Grange Margaret Macpherson Grant Ulysses S. Grant Giovanni Antonio Grassi John de Gray El Greco Horace Greeley Charles Green (Australian soldier) Debora Green Stanley Green Herbert Greenfield Lady Gregory Wayne Gretzky Jane Grigson Joseph Grimaldi Rufus Wilmot Griswold Orval Grove Leslie Groves Rhys ap Gruffydd Bryan Gunn Jake Gyllenhaal Maggie Gyllenhaal H.D. Al-Hafiz James P. Hagerstrom Richard Hakluyt John Richard Clark Hall Ayumi Hamasaki Ron Hamence with the Australian cricket team in England in 1948 Wally Hammond Amir Hamzah Valston Hancock Winfield Scott Hancock Learned Hand Mark Hanna William Hanna Colin Hannah William Hardham Warren G. Harding Donald Hardman William Harper (Rhodesian politician) Benjamin Harrison Fairfax Harrison George Harrison William Henry Harrison Phil Hartman Francis Harvey Neil Harvey with the Australian cricket team in England in 1948 Dominik Hašek Lindsay Hassett with the Australian cricket team in England in 1948 Anne Hathaway Simon Hatley Eric A. Havelock Richard Hawes Ethan Hawke John Hay Rutherford B. Hayes Elwood Haynes Frank Headlam George Headley Patrick Francis Healy Charles Heaphy Reginald Heber Princess Helena of the United Kingdom John L. Helm William Hely Ernest Hemingway Paul Henderson Canadian drug charges and trial of Jimi Hendrix Death of Jimi Hendrix Jimi Hendrix Henry I of England Henry III of England Henry IV, Holy Roman Emperor Henry (bishop of Finland) Patrick Henry Thierry Henry George Went Hensley Katharine Hepburn George Herriman Edmund Herring Herbie Hewett Joe Hewitt (RAAF officer) Georgette Heyer Peter Heywood Hi-5 (Australian group) Hilary of Chichester Clem Hill Damon Hill Lynn Hill William Hillcourt Bernard Hinault Thomas C. Hindman Hippocrates George Hirst Garret Hobart Jack Hobbs Philip Seymour Hoffman Ima Hogg James Hogun Charles Holden Les Holden Disappearance of Natalee Holloway Stanley Holloway Oliver Wendell Holmes Sr. Gustav Holst Imogen Holst Michael Hordern Kenneth Horne Rogers Hornsby E. W. Hornung Brian Horrocks Nicholas Hoult House of Plantagenet Margaret Lea Houston Art Houtteman Juwan Howard C. D. Howe Robert Howe (Continental Army officer) Cedric Howell Hu Zhengyan Thomas J. Hudner Jr. Robert Hues Paterson Clarence Hughes Caesar Hull James Humphreys (pornographer) Josh Hutcherson Anne Hutchinson Len Hutton Hygeberht Jarome Iginla Fanny Imlay Joaquim José Inácio, Viscount of Inhaúma Ine of Wessex Charles Inglis (engineer) Harold Innis Roy Inwood Irataba Isabeau of Bavaria Ismail I of Granada Hastings Ismay, 1st Baron Ismay Israel the Grammarian Satoru Iwata Andrew Jackson Archie Jackson Janet Jackson John Francis Jackson Michael Jackson Mike Jackson (British Army officer) Hattie Jacques James II of England James VI and I Jamiroquai Eusèbe Jaojoby Douglas Jardine Peter Jeffrey (RAAF officer) Frank Jenner Peter Jennings Jørgen Jensen (soldier) Jesus Derek Jeter Dobroslav Jev?evi? Muhammad Ali Jinnah Joan of Arc Jocelin of Glasgow Joehana Scarlett Johansson John Edward Brownlee as Attorney-General of Alberta John, King of England Andrew Johnson Ian Johnson (cricketer) Joseph Johnson (publisher) Keen Johnson Keith Johnson (cricket administrator) Magic Johnson Early life of Samuel Johnson Samuel Johnson Andrew Johnston (singer) David A. Johnston John W. Johnston Angelina Jolie Murder of Dwayne Jones George Jones (RAAF officer) Peter Jones (missionary) Michael Jordan Bradley Joseph Jane Joseph Josquin des Prez Jovan Vladimir Joy Division Ernest Joyce James Joyce Master Juba Justus Ted Kaczynski Franz Kafka Paul Kagame Edgar Kain Dimple Kapadia Kareena Kapoor Abdul Karim (the Munshi) Robert Kaske Masako Katsura J. R. Kealoha Maynard James Keenan Fred Keenor George F. Kennan Assassination of Robert F. Kennedy Susi Kentikian Jomo Kenyatta Johannes Kepler Mark Kerry André Kertész Albert Ketèlbey Akhtar Hameed Khan Shah Rukh Khan Hasan al-Kharrat Nikita Khrushchev Bill Kibby Craig Kieswetter Harmon Killebrew Roy Kilner Bart King Elwyn Roy King Bruce Kingsbury Thomas C. Kinkaid The Kinks Johann von Klenau Nigel Kneale John Knox Kalki Koechlin Manuel I Komnenos Tadeusz Ko?ciuszko Sandy Koufax George Koval Christopher C. Kraft Jr. Walter Krueger Paul Kruger Nikolai Kulikovsky Nodar Kumaritashvili Cynna Kydd Leah LaBelle Lady Gaga Gilbert du Motier, Marquis de Lafayette Ruby Laffoon Nestor Lakoba Mathew Charles Lamb Daniel Lambert Osbert Lancaster Kenesaw Mountain Landis Franklin Knight Lane Cosmo Gordon Lang George Lansbury LaRouche criminal trials Brie Larson Harold Larwood Lat (cartoonist) Laurence of Canterbury Jennifer Lawrence Ursula K. Le Guin John Le Mesurier Lê Quang Tung John Leak Raymond Leane Louis Leblanc Faith Leech Vivien Leigh Émile Lemoine Etta Lemon Suzanne Lenglen Vladimir Lenin John Lennon Dan Leno Helmut Lent John Lerew Harriet Leveson-Gower, Countess Granville David Lewis (Canadian politician) Maurice Leyland Lie Kim Hok Marcel Lihau Eli Lilly Ernst Lindemann Trevor Linden Lindow Man Ray Lindwall with the Australian cricket team in England in 1948 El Lissitzky Little Tich Marie Lloyd Stefan Lochner Kellie Loder Carl Hans Lody Huey Long James B. Longacre William de Longchamp James Longstreet Joseph A. Lopez Lorde Prince Louis of Battenberg Courtney Love David Lovering Edward Low James Russell Lowell Sam Loxton Sam Loxton with the Australian cricket team in England in 1948 John Bingham, 7th Earl of Lucan Steve Lukather Glynn Lunney Luo Yixiu Roberto Luongo Witold Lutos?awski Marcus Ward Lyon Jr. Douglas MacArthur's escape from the Philippines Douglas MacArthur Charlie Macartney George Macaulay Angus Lewis Macdonald John A. Macdonald Gregor MacGregor Iven Mackay William Lyon Mackenzie Aeneas Mackintosh Archie MacLaren Bernard A. Maguire Gustav Mahler Miriam Makeba Malcolm X Garnet Malley Haane Manahi Manchester Mummy Nelson Mandela Bob Mann (American football) Olivia Manning Marcian Margaret (singer) Princess Maria Amélia of Brazil Clements Markham John Churchill, 1st Duke of Marlborough Sarah Churchill, Duchess of Marlborough Francis Marrash Jack Marsh Bob Marshall (wilderness activist) Thomas R. Marshall Billy Martin Marwan I Mary II of England Mary, Queen of Scots Mary of Teck Herbert Maryon Evelyn Mase George Mason Jules Massenet Frank Matcham Empress Matilda Lionel Matthews William Matthews (priest) Maximian Maximus the Confessor Murray Maxwell Jimmy McAleer Early life and military career of John McCain John McCain Bill McCann Paul McCartney John McCauley James Whiteside McCay Barbara McClintock James B. McCreary Lanny McDonald Frances Gertrude McGill John McGraw William McGregor (football) William McKinley Lesley J. McNair Frank McNamara (RAAF officer) H. C. McNeile Harry McNish William McSherry Ian Dougald McLachlan Alan McNicoll Ian Meckiff Ezra Meeker Jacobus Anthonie Meessen Megadeth B. Max Mehl Manon Melis Mellitus Danie Mellor Felix Mendelssohn Menkauhor Kaiu Mercury Seven Meshuggah André Messager Olivier Messiaen Metallica Bob Meusel August Meyszner Michael Brown Okinawa assault incident Khalid al-Mihdhar Military service of Ian Smith Harvey Milk Early life of Keith Miller Keith Miller in the 1946–47 Australian cricket season Keith Miller with the Australian cricket team in England in 1948 Kylie Minogue Sherman Minton Nancy Mitford Muhammad I of Granada Arthur Mold Emery Molyneux Marilyn Monroe Madeline Montalban Pierre Monteux Claudio Monteverdi George Moore (novelist) Henry Moore James Moore (Continental Army officer) Julianne Moore Fred Moosally Emanuel Moravec Howie Morenz Sandra Morgan Benjamin Morrell Arthur Morris Edwin P. Morrow Meinhard Michael Moser Benjamin Mountfort Mozart in Italy Al-Mu'tadid Al-Mu'tasim Muhammad II of Granada Muhammad III of Granada Muhammad ibn Tughj al-Ikhshid Muhammad IV of Granada Rani Mukerji Samuel Mulledy Thomas F. Mulledy Baron Munchausen Douglas Albert Munro Madman Muntz Murasaki Shikibu Alister Murdoch Audie Murphy Cillian Murphy Harry Murray Margaret Murray Stan Musial R. A. B. Mynors Florence Nagle Fridtjof Nansen Daisy Jugadai Napaltjarri Wintjiya Napaltjarri Makinti Napanangka Ram Narayan Francis Nash Nasr of Granada John Neal (writer) Elizabeth Needham Neferefre Neferirkare Kakai James Nesbitt Hugh de Neville Ralph Neville James Newland Sydney Newman Bill Newton Ngô ?ình C?n Nguy?n Chánh Thi Carl Nielsen Nigel (bishop of Ely) Nine Inch Nails Nirvana (band) Pat Nixon Richard Nixon Emmy Noether John Mowbray, 3rd Duke of Norfolk Ruth Norman Roger Norreis Emperor Norton The Notorious B.I.G. Lisa Nowak Louie Nunn Nyuserre Ini Mary Margaret O'Reilly Barack Obama Ian O'Brien Odaenathus Óengus I Oerip Soemohardjo Offa of Mercia Kevin O'Halloran Grand Duchess Olga Alexandrovna of Russia Grand Duchess Olga Nikolaevna of Russia Olga Constantinovna of Russia Mark Oliphant Bronwyn Oliver Laurence Olivier Gerard K. O'Neill Opeth J. Robert Oppenheimer Sergo Ordzhonikidze Bill O'Reilly (cricketer) Leo Ornstein Johnny Owen Deepika Padukone Andreas Palaiologos Lionel Palairet Emmeline Pankhurst Honório Hermeto Carneiro Leão, Marquis of Paraná José Paranhos, Viscount of Rio Branco Jack Parsons (rocket engineer) William Sterling Parsons Ben Paschal George S. Patton George S. Patton slapping incidents Paul E. Patton Ellis Paul Paulinus of York Death of Blair Peach Robert Peake the Elder Franklin Peale Pearl Jam Kosta Pe?anac Pedro I of Brazil Pedro II of Brazil Pedro Afonso, Prince Imperial of Brazil Bobby Peel Walter Peeler I. M. Pei Penda of Mercia Jerry Pentland Pepi I Meryre Thomas Percy (Gunpowder Plot) Pericles Katy Perry Henry Petre Milorad Petrovi? Ph?m Ng?c Th?o Phan ?ình Phùng Phan Xích Long Philip I Philadelphus Philitas of Cos Roy Phillipps Erin Phillips Tommy Phillips Artur Phleps Frank Pick Franklin Pierce Albert Pierrepoint Józef Pi?sudski Pink Floyd Harold Pinter Freida Pinto Benedetto Pistrucci Henry Ho?olulu Pitman Brad Pitt Pixies (band) John Plagis Jacques Plante Thomas Playford IV Gabriel Pleydell Edgar Allan Poe Virginia Eliza Clemm Poe Jean Baptiste Point du Sable James K. Polk Reg Pollard (general) Edwin Taylor Pollock Bill Ponsford Lazare Ponticelli Manuel Marques de Sousa, Count of Porto Alegre Francis Poulenc Ezra Pound Powderfinger Elizabeth Willing Powel Premiership of John Edward Brownlee Elvis Presley Joseph Priestley Adelaide Anne Procter Tom Pryce CM Punk Hilary Putnam Minnie Pwerle Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky and The Five Vidkun Quisling R.E.M. Jean-Joseph Rabearivelo Isidor Isaac Rabi Arthur W. Radford Radiohead Ion Heliade R?dulescu Elizabeth Raffald Rainilaiarivony Ramesses VI Alf Ramsey Norodom Ranariddh Kangana Ranaut Ranavalona I Ranavalona III Samuel J. Randall Milos Raonic Maurice Ravel Peter Raw Satyajit Ray William F. Raynolds Nancy Reagan Ronald Reagan Red Barn Murder Talbot Baines Reed Richard Gavin Reid Marian Rejewski Stamata Revithi L. D. Reynolds Wilfred Rhodes Richard II of England J. R. Richard Maurice Richard J. Havens Richards Ralph Richardson Louis Riel Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov Jochen Rindt Mariano Rivera Hilda Rix Nicholas Robert of Jumièges Iwan Roberts Robert Roberts (author) George Robey Jackie Robinson Bobby Robson Roekiah Woodes Rogers Ambrose Rookwood Prince Romerson George W. Romney Mitt Romney William de Ros, 6th Baron Ros Juan Manuel de Rosas Hannah Primrose, Countess of Rosebery Elias Abraham Rosenberg Hrithik Roshan Art Ross Lawrence Sullivan Ross Gioachino Rossini James Rowland (RAAF officer) J. K. Rowling Jacob van Ruisdael Maria Rundell Martin Rundkvist Bill Russell Babe Ruth Alexander Cameron Rutherford Rex Ryan James A. Ryder John/Eleanor Rykener William S. Sadler Sahure Lady Saig? Camille Saint-Saëns Joe Sakic Salih ibn Mirdas Teresa Sampsonia Omayra Sánchez William Edward Sanders Joey Santiago Sasha (DJ) Mark Satin Death of Mark Saunders Reg Saunders Stanley Savige Henry W. Sawyer Antonin Scalia Frederick Scherger Sigi Schmid Charles Scott (governor) David Scott Robert Falcon Scott John Martin Scripps Uriel Sebree Laura Secord Daniel Sedin Henrik Sedin Seleucus VI Epiphanes Norman Selfe Peter Sellers Domenico Selvo Joel Selwood Jason Sendwe Sennacherib Waisale Serevi William H. Seward Sex Pistols Friedrich Wilhelm von Seydlitz Ernest Shackleton Kenneth R. Shadrick Olivia Shakespear William Shakespeare Solomon P. Sharp Edmund Sharpe George Bernard Shaw Sebastian Shaw (actor) Joseph Francis Shea Wail al-Shehri Isaac Shelby Mary Shelley Shen Kuo Alan Shepard Elliott Fitch Shepard Jack Sheppard Kate Sheppard Shepseskare John Sherman William Tecumseh Sherman Grace Sherwood Mary Martha Sherwood Sheshi Dmitri Shostakovich Alfred Shout Shunzhi Emperor Sabrina Sidney Siegfried Lederer's escape from Auschwitz Arthur Sifton Silverchair Simeon I of Bulgaria Tom Simpson Wallis Simpson Siward, Earl of Northumbria Tyler Skaggs Red Skelton Slayer Andrew Sledd Louis Slotin The Smashing Pumpkins Bed?ich Smetana Faryl Smith Issy Smith Lee Smith (baseball) Ozzie Smith Samantha Smith Albertus Soegijapranata Georg Solti Kaikhosru Shapurji Sorabji Aaron Sorkin Albert Speer Lou Spence Edgar Speyer Adele Spitzeder Jo Stafford Myles Standish Charles Villiers Stanford Augustus Owsley Stanley Ringo Starr William T. Stearn Gwen Stefani Rod Steiger Ed Stelmach Casey Stengel Stephen I of Hungary Stephen, King of England Stereolab Thaddeus Stevens Clare Stevenson Melford Stevenson Charles Stewart (premier) Stigand Constance Stokes Emma Stone Charles H. Stonestreet Strapping Young Lad Eduard Streltsov Charlotte Stuart, Duchess of Albany Hod Stuart Ronald Stuart Vernon Sturdee Sudirman Sulayman ibn Abd al-Malik Arthur Sullivan Arthur Sullivan (Australian soldier) Jethro Sumner The Supremes Jean-François de Surville Taylor Swift John Millington Synge William Howard Taft Paul Palaiologos Tagaris T?ru Takemitsu Don Tallon Bazy Tankersley Tarrare Paul Nobuo Tatsuguchi Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky Tecumseh Edward Teller Terry-Thomas Theobald of Bec Teresa Cristina of the Two Sicilies John Thirtle Nguy?n Ng?c Th? Thomas of Bayeux Murder of Julia Martha Thomas Thomas the Slav William Beach Thomas Jim Thome James Thompson (surveyor) Tiny Thompson Tom Thomson Ian Thorpe Jeremy Thorpe Jim Thorpe Thurisind Paul Tibbets Tichborne case Benjamin Franklin Tilley Benjamin Tillman Michael Tippett Tiridates I of Armenia Joseph W. Tkach James Tod Mary Toft J. R. R. Tolkien Billy Joe Tolliver Death of Ian Tomlinson Tôn Th?t ?ính Mark Tonelli Tool (band) Ernie Toshack Ernie Toshack with the Australian cricket team in England in 1948 Edgar Towner Meghan Trainor Bert Trautmann John Treloar (museum administrator) Marcus Trescothick Francis Tresham Stephen Trigg Sarah Trimmer Harry Trott Harry R. Truman Harry S. Truman Hugh Trumble Irakli Tsereteli Harriet Tubman George Tucker (politician) Thurman Tucker D. H. Turner Emma Louisa Turner Dick Turpin John Tyler John Tyndall (far-right activist) U2 Morihei Ueshiba Unas Uncle Tupelo Userkaf Fakih Usman Edvard August Vainio Mary van Kleeck Ralph Vaughan Williams Hedley Verity Peter Martyr Vermigli Georges Vézina Princess Victoria of Hesse and by Rhine Queen Victoria Giovanni Villani George Vincent (painter) Barry Voight Kurt Vonnegut Jerry Voorhis Rudolf Vrba Vesna Vulovi? Ellis Wackett Abe Waddington John Lloyd Waddy Cosima Wagner Richard Wagner Princess Charlotte of Wales Kenneth Walker Alfred Russel Wallace Hector Waller Hugh Walpole Francis Walsingham Hubert Walter Allan Walters William Walton Joe Warbrick Fabian Ware William Warelwast Blair Wark John Wark Peter Warlock Jack L. Warner George Washington and slavery George Washington (inventor) Roger Waters Emma Watson Oswald Watt Evelyn Waugh Lawrence Weathers James B. Weaver Stanley Price Weir Henry Wells (general) Lawrence Wetherby Tyrone Wheatley Mortimer Wheeler Ryan White Thomas White (Australian politician) Gough Whitlam John Whittle The Wiggles Wiglaf of Mercia Wihtred of Kent William Wilberforce Wilco Maurice Wilder-Neligan Wilfrid Ellen Wilkinson William III of England William IV William of Wrotham William of Tyre William the Conqueror Bernard Williams Michelle Williams (actress) Nigel Williams (conservator) Richard Williams (RAAF officer) Nathaniel Parker Willis Wendell Willkie Francis Willughby John Wilton (general) Bob Windle Kate Winslet Reese Witherspoon W?adys?aw II Jagie??o P. G. Wodehouse Mary Wollstonecraft Rudolf Wolters Anna May Wong Henry Wood Samuel Merrill Woodbridge Michael Woodruff James Park Woods Alfred Worden Fanny Bullock Workman Edward Wright (mathematician) John Michael Wright Henry Wrigley Wulfhere of Mercia William Wurtenburg Yao Ming Robert Sterling Yard Yazid I Murder of Joanna Yeates W. B. Yeats John Young (astronaut) Yusuf I of Granada Frank Zappa Zenobia Farran Zerbe Catherine Zeta-Jones Zhang Heng Zhou Tong (archer) Preity Zinta Otto Julius Zobel Scott Zolak Nikita Zotov Huldrych Zwingli Peter van Geersdaele Associated Wikimedia The following Wikimedia Foundation sister projects provide more on this subject: Wikibooks Books Commons Media Wikinews News Wikiquote Quotations Wikisource Texts Wikiversity Learning resources Wiktionary Definitions Wikidata Database Portals Activities Culture Geography Health History Mathematics Nature People Philosophy Religion Society Technology Random portal What are portals? List of portals Sub-pages of Portal:Biography Purge server cache Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Biography&oldid=1054781394" Categories: All portals Biography portal Biography (genre) Hidden categories: Portals with triaged subpages from June 2018 All portals with triaged subpages Portals with no named maintainer Portals with short description Wikipedia semi-protected portals Wikipedia move-protected portals Automated article-slideshow portals with over 1000 articles in article list Past featured portals Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Portal Talk Variants expanded collapsed Views Read View source View history More expanded collapsed Search Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikisource Languages ??????? ????? Bân-lâm-gú ????????? ?????????? ?????????? (???????????) ????????? Bosanski Brezhoneg Català Cebuano ?eština Deutsch ?????????? Eesti ???????? Español Esperanto ????? Français ??????? ?????? Hrvatski ????????????? ??????? Bahasa Indonesia Italiano ????? Kapampangan ??????? ??????? Kiswahili Kurdî ???????? Latviešu Lietuvi? ?????????? ?????? ???? ???? ??? Bahasa Melayu ?????????? ??? ??????? Occitan O?zbekcha/??????? Polski Português Român? ??????? ????? ???? Sloven?ina Soomaaliga ????? ?????? / srpski Suomi ???????/tatarça ????????? ?????? Türkçe ?????????? ???? Xitsonga Yorùbá ?? Zazaki ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 12 November 2021, at 02:04 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement