Wikipedia:Teahouse - Wikipedia
Wikipedia:Teahouse - Wikipedia Wikipedia:Teahouse From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Help forum for new users Shortcuts WP:TEA WP:TH Sdkb, a Teahouse host Welcome to the Teahouse! A friendly place where you can ask questions to get help with using and editing Wikipedia Ask a question Question forumMeet your hostsArticles to improveBecome a host New to Wikipedia? See our tutorial for new editors or introduction to contributing page. Note: Newer questions appear at the bottom of the Teahouse. Completed questions are archived within 3 days. Please remember to sign your posts by typing four keyboard tildes like this: ~~~~. Help Wikipedia To read the newest questions, skip to bottom About the Teahouse Contents 1 User level 2 Changed image too similar to previous image and rejected? 3 Noteability 4 Romulus and Remus (Rubens) 5 Filmography Listing Noontime and Variety Show Appearances 6 External tools 7 Making a Request to the community to upload pictures of musicians? 8 Nirmal Baby Varghese 9 Can a more experienced editor review the page "Druthers"? I think it should be a candidate for deletion. 10 Does WP:NPOL covers Mayors of the cities? 11 Hello from Carlos 12 Possible citogenesis at Lipstick lesbian 13 Flagging content for revision? 14 the end the fight 15 Move article from Sandbox 16 I need help on changing pages 17 Quotes 18 After submission, my draft has two conflicting Afc templates 19 Can someone create a wikipedia page for me if I provide all the necessary information? 20 Editing declined draft article 21 new article immediately public withut review? 22 National Centre for Australian Children's Literature major update to the Wikiprdia entry 23 Userboxes 24 Citation 25 Reinstating a deleted page 26 ARTICLE DELETED 27 Question re:Wikipedia:Protection policy#extended 28 What does the "im" mean in "uw-(whatever)4im"? 29 BCCI Cricket logo 30 publishing a new page 31 Draft Jitsu Squad 32 Articles 33 page notability 34 How to use Templates 35 Edit count 36 Resubmitting the Draft:Karlheinz Krauth 37 New Page Reviewer Question 38 Generalized on English language vs Specialized on Foreign Language 39 I am trying to create a page for Kylan Guerra. 40 Teahouse 41 Is there a template that says [How?] or [How so?]? 42 Editing an Academic-written review entry 43 Image published under CC BY-NC-SA 4.0 44 Naming of Article: Given name, or Known name? 45 How can I add a logo to a page -had to remove old one and not sure how to replace with new one page Actian 46 I’m trying to get involved any advice on steps to take is appreciated 47 Page with many clear COI/Paid Editing violations- delete or revise? 48 How do you remove citations? 49 Architecture firm 50 I got adopted for the Adopt-A-User program 51 question about the notability of politicians 52 Removal of Legal Issue 53 Anecdote 54 Seeking advice on improving a new article that has been flagged for deletion 55 Page creation 56 A Wikipedia page 57 Table help needed 58 Is there a question 59 Biased edits 60 Question 61 John Gatins wiki page - 62 Sources 63 Can I use Reddit as a source? 64 Sources 65 Repertorium Eruditorum Totius Europae: citation spam or not 66 Copyright image 67 How do I get my contributions published? 68 Template not working.. for some reason 69 Recording anecdotes 70 Two people with the same name 71 Sandbox to review to live? 72 Shortcuts 73 Wikipedia Image Google Search Box 74 A question about paid editors 75 Feedback 76 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Draft:Laurence_Myers 77 Alexandria Times on Wiki needs the name of its Founder, which is me :-] 78 Getting more communities involved in overseeing a page Most recent archives 1113, 1114, 1115, 1116, 1117, 1118, 1119, 1120, 1121, 1122, 1123, 1124, 1125, 1126, 1127, 1128, 1129, 1130, 1131, 1132 User level[edit] Hi, I wanted to know how I can add a user level. I mean there will be a bar on my user page, and it will fill up as I edit articles. And beside it would be written, my next user level. Any idea on how to do that? Itcouldbepossible (talk) 09:32, 24 November 2021 (UTC) Here's a workaround, Itcouldbepossible. Just edit articles, constructively. Soon you will be "extended confirmed". Most people are, and few people will be surprised or much interested to know that you are. There are some other very minor superpowers that you can acquire; but again, few people will be interested. Some superpowers are a bit out of the ordinary, and you might want to advertise one or other of these; on the other hand, advertising them may seem somewhat vulgar. Best is to aim to be an article-improving Clark Kent. -- Hoary (talk) 11:58, 24 November 2021 (UTC) @Itcouldbepossible Welcome to Tea House! As @Itcouldbepossible stated, it's rarely of interest to anyone else. This essay on WP:HATCOLLECTING could be useful on the mostly harms/some benefits of gamifying your user page with statistics. I do indulge myself with Wikipedia:Service awards as a way of marking specific tiers of editing. Happy editing! ~ ? Shushugah (he/him • talk) 12:57, 24 November 2021 (UTC) @Hoary@Shushugah Actually I was talking about service award progress templates. I have finally found out. But still can anyone here give me some more service award progress template link? Itcouldbepossible (talk) 09:14, 26 November 2021 (UTC) @Itcouldbepossible: Hi there! You may be interested in Wikipedia:Service awards. Happy editing! GoingBatty (talk) 01:34, 27 November 2021 (UTC) @GoingBatty Thanks for the page. Itcouldbepossible (talk) 02:47, 27 November 2021 (UTC) @Itcouldbepossible: i got one at the bottom of my user page (well technically the mRNA table is the one at the bottom of my user page) Is that what you looking for? also to ping users use this syntax {{u|Username}} or {{ping|Username}}--LostCitrationHunter (talk) 15:21, 28 November 2021 (UTC) @LostCitrationHunter What are you talking about?? Why are you giving me a table. I was looking for service award progress templates? And I also know how to ping users. It is a automatic way. I use beta features. Thanks for the suggestion. Itcouldbepossible (talk) 15:31, 28 November 2021 (UTC) @Itcouldbepossible: the @ping feature doesnt work for me along with some more features, so i assumed it didn't work for anyone else. but i assume you got your service award — Preceding unsigned comment added by LostCitrationHunter (talk • contribs) 18:11, 28 November 2021 (UTC) Changed image too similar to previous image and rejected?[edit] Hi all! What do I do if an image I edited to replace a previous one is too similar and is rejected by Wiki as a duplicate? I'm working on the article of the Battle of Gosselies, and I created some battle maps using Google Earth and historical maps. However I'm still improving and refining my research, and I got one location slightly off and edited my image to reflect the correct location. Essentially all I did was move one white dot on the map. This was not detected by Wiki and it flagged it as a duplicate, which it isn't. So I can't update the map, and I can't delete the original file I uploaded either. As a battle map and as a location that was part of the combat, that location matters. How do I replace that image and get the updated image accepted? Talamioros (talk) 15:39, 26 November 2021 (UTC) @Talamioros: If you navigate to the filepage on Commons, for example here, there is a file history section below the current version where it says "Upload a new version of this file". As far as I'm aware, the new upload is not compared with the old version and just replaces it. I assume you got into trouble because you tried to upload the edited version under a new name. Mike Turnbull (talk) 18:00, 26 November 2021 (UTC) @Michael D. Turnbull: I'm not sure if I've got your name right, this reply mechanism is a bit arcane...but I have tried doing what you suggested, and the update was still rejected because moving one dot was too small a change and Wiki still considered it a duplicate. I've sidestepped the issue however, by cropping the images to a slightly different proportion, and I had those uploaded as new uploads without issue. Talamioros (talk) 06:49, 27 November 2021 (UTC) @Talamioros: You said that you made the maps "using Google Earth". Does that mean that the aerial photography used as the background for the maps came from Google Earth? If it does, that might be a problem, since images from Google Earth generally aren't sufficiently free to be used on Wikimedia Commons. In any case, you should should mention the source of the background imagery in the file description. If you visit the pictures' pages on Commons you can edit the description to add a note to the "source" field. (Visiting from Commons: Teahouse hosts should tell me if I'm out of line) --bjh21 (talk) 18:27, 27 November 2021 (UTC) @Bjh21: Yes, that's right, unfortunately. What I have done is used a blank Earth shot with no annotations, and then annotated it with my own historical map information, allowing readers to see how the spaces relate to modern locations. In the absence of time to rectify the picture, and in the belief that the maps are crucial to explain the description of the battle, I'll be leaving the current images there for the time being while I plan to rectify it. I have, as suggested, updated the source as a stopgap measure. Thanks to the page you shared about the media resources, I'll do up a replica of the maps on Maps For Free once I have the time, which will be sooner rather than later, and replace the current Google Earth-based ones. Of course, if it's a real immediate problem, you or other editors can take any necessary action. Either way, now that I know where else I can get a blank map, I'll have replacements up shortly. Talamioros (talk) 05:58, 28 November 2021 (UTC) Noteability[edit] Hello, I am having trouble publishing an article about an actor I like. He is in two series on Netflix, and a few different sites containing biographical information. However the approval person says this actor is not noteworthy. I don't see how this is possible Is being in two different Netflix series sufficient for being noteworthy? Sirspensir (talk) 04:21, 27 November 2021 (UTC) @Sirspensir: Welcome to the Teahouse. See WP:NACTOR – for one thing, it isn't just about what series he's appeared in, but also the notability of those series and the significance of his roles. ClaudineChionh (talk – contribs) 04:36, 27 November 2021 (UTC) @Sirspensir: It's also required to provide multiple independent sources that provide significant coverage of the actor, and the Netflix links are not independent. Also, please do not remove the AFC templates from Draft:Eldar Kalimulin, as they provide you important information to improve your draft, as well as giving you a method to resubmit the draft when you've improved it. Happy editing! GoingBatty (talk) 04:47, 27 November 2021 (UTC) Sirspensir (talk) the reviewer did not say that the actor wasn't notable, but that Draft:Eldar Kalimulin did not show him to be notable. Your draft consists of only one sentence, and two of your online references were Netflix cites which just showed that the series existed, and didn't even list Kalimulin's name. Did he have recurring roles in those series, or just have a small role in a couple of episodes? The other reference was in a foreign language, showed a photo of the actor, and a few bits of information I couldn't read. Are there newspaper or magazine articles about Kalimulin? Not articles just mentioning he was in a series, but ones giving details about his acting career, awards he's been nominated for, or other accomplishments that would make someone believe the person was notable. Reading Help:Your first article may help you improve your draft. Best wishes on your article project. Karenthewriter (talk) 05:09, 27 November 2021 (UTC) @ClaudineChionh The reason I wanted to make this article is that the other actors in this series have Wikipedia articles, and only this actor's name is in red signifying he doesn't have a page. The show is in the 'Popular on Netflix' section, so I think it seems to be quite relevant. Moreover, I feel being on Netflix is no small feat. @GoingBatty Thank you for that info. I was unaware Netflix is not considered an independent source. I will brush up on that. I am not sure what you mean by removing the AFC templates... I shall also look into that. @Karenthewriter Thank you for differentiating that - being noteworthy and being shown to be noteworthy, those are two quite different things. Also, Eldar Kalimulin is listed on the page to which I provided the link. His name is listed 6th for actors and I believe he is in every episode of both shows. I used those as references because I saw that the page of one of the lead actors used them as references, so I thought they would work for the other actor which I am writing the page for (though of course there were additional sources for the main actor). Thank you all for your advice! I am really enjoying this learning experience and grateful for the friendly community — Preceding unsigned comment added by Sirspensir (talk • contribs) 07:14, 27 November 2021 (UTC) Sirspensir perhaps if a person has a Netflix account Kalimulin's name can be seen on the links, but I could only see an advertisement that shows names of 3 actors. I looked again after you stated he was listed on the page, and I tried to click on different "tabs" but just got a notice that I needed to register with Netflix. I wasn't able to see that Kalimulin was connected to the series. Karenthewriter (talk) 01:07, 28 November 2021 (UTC) @Sirspensir: Those big pink boxes at the top of Draft:Eldar Kalimulin are the Articles for Creation (AfC) templates. When you click the "Edit source" tab on your draft, you'll see templates such as {{AFC submission}} and {{AFC comment}} with a comment stating "Do not remove this line!" Happy editing! GoingBatty (talk) 17:32, 27 November 2021 (UTC) Hello, Sirspensir. Netflix is not considered an independent source doesn't really make sense without context. Netflix is not an independent source for information about any Netflix show, or the people involved in one. It could in principle be an independent source about something else (though I don't know in what circumstances Netflix might publish information about something else). --ColinFine (talk) 17:46, 27 November 2021 (UTC) @ColinFine: Thank you for the clarification. Yes, I assumed that Netflix would not be a credible source if I were writing about Netflix, but I thought it would be credible for citing the actor's achievements. @Karenthewriter:No need to sign in as I was not signed in either. There are the three main actors listed at the top of the site, but if you scroll down until after the episode list, there is a more extensive list with Mr Kalimulin's name. — Preceding unsigned comment added by Sirspensir (talk • contribs) 07:44, 28 November 2021 (UTC) Sirspensir, notability requires significant coverage in independent reliable sources. Netflix is certainly not an independent source about an actor working on one of their shows, since they have a financial stake in the success of that show and an actor appearing in it. Nothing published by Netflix can ever be used to establish the notability of any actor it employs. Cullen328 (talk) 07:55, 28 November 2021 (UTC) Romulus and Remus (Rubens)[edit] Hello! Please, expand this articles.--????????? ???????? (talk) 18:01, 27 November 2021 (UTC) Article about a Rubens painting created in 2009; never referenced. David notMD (talk) 18:41, 27 November 2021 (UTC) @????????? ????????: You may want to ask at Wikipedia talk:WikiProject Visual arts. Happy editing! GoingBatty (talk) 18:56, 27 November 2021 (UTC) You’re so helpful!--????????? ???????? (talk) 18:07, 28 November 2021 (UTC) Filmography Listing Noontime and Variety Show Appearances[edit] I would like to edit an article of a singer/actress. Her filmography section currently lists dozens of appearances on variety/noontime/game shows in the Television section. Is it proper to include these appearances or should they be deleted? I should note that her career right now is basically as a film actress and singer. So I just find it somewhat weird to include all these random appearances in her filmography. Her participation in these shows is a guest or performer, not as a host. What's the policy on this? Koikefan (talk) 07:05, 28 November 2021 (UTC) External tools[edit] There are external tools when I view page history of an article, like; Find addition/removal, Find edits by user (Alternate), Page statistics, Pageviews, Fix dead links. Is it safe to use? —It'sCtrlwiki • talk • 08:38, 28 November 2021 (UTC) @Ctrlwiki Yes, absolutely! - those links are provide for you to use, and can be very helpful I do think tools like 'WikiBlame' are incredibly useful to find a point when certain line of text was first inserted into an article - but they are probably a bit overlooked. Any tool that actually fixes things (makes changes), rather than simply displaying information has to be used with the same responsibility as any other editing tool here. But you are welcome to explore and find what is useful for you. Nick Moyes (talk) 10:49, 28 November 2021 (UTC) Thank you!—It'sCtrlwiki • talk • Making a Request to the community to upload pictures of musicians?[edit] Hello i want to create a music section in a article for very notable Ethiopian/Amharic musicians. I found more than enough pictures of male performers of different genre's/era's, but not enough of female performers pictures are uploaded even though there's probably just as many of articles. Can i request the wiki community here/somewhere for the upload of pictures? Pictures of oldies and deceased Asnaketch Worku and Bizunesh Bekele. Old and alive Emahoy Tsegué-Maryam Guèbrou. Less old Gigi (singer), Abby Lakew and Tsedenia Gebremarkos. Some newer ones Betty G and Munit Mesfin. For the two deceased it's (almost) impossible to figure out who owns the copyright and/or if there is any, based on google searches. Does someone has a better way? I just need one of the 3 oldies, and one of the newer/less old. Dawit S Gondaria (talk) 08:41, 28 November 2021 (UTC) @Dawit S Gondaria Welcome to the Teahouse. You might be very pleased to learn that, for deceased people, we do allow copyrighted images to be uploaded directly to Wikipedia (but not Wikimedia Commons) under a 'Non-Free content' basis (see WP:NFC) In particular, see point 10 of that page at WP:NFCI. Where a person is still alive, that is a very different matter. If you can find copyrighted images posted of living people on sites like Flickr, it can sometimes yield results if you approach the photographer directly and ask them to change the licencing of that specific image, or upload it themselves to Commons. I have used that method with wildlife images occasionally, and found some photographers only too happy to help, knowing that their work will be seen and used more widely. I hope this helps a bit. Nick Moyes (talk) 10:45, 28 November 2021 (UTC) Nick Moyes thank you this could be very helpful! Dawit S Gondaria (talk) 00:13, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Nick Moyes One more question, can i use a non-free file in this way or is this considered a gallery, and is that allowed? Dawit S Gondaria (talk) 00:26, 29 November 2021 (UTC) @Dawit S Gondaria To be honest: I really don’t know. You obviously wouldn’t be able to justify its use in any sandbox, but whether you could justify its use in a list article with images, I’m unsure. I suspect not. And I assume the WP:NFC page doesn’t specify anything? It might ‘’just’’ be permitted if it were purely there alongside others in one main list article to link to that person’s main article, but I think it best to avoid doing so, or be prepared to be told it can’t be used in that way, and only on their own article. Nick Moyes (talk) 08:03, 29 November 2021 (UTC) @Nick Moyes i asked because of policy number 9 on WP:NFC it says Nogallery, questioning whether my idea is in a gallery form. I want to add it the Amhara people article, and create a music section there, the same way i did for the literature section. Dawit S Gondaria (talk) 10:03, 30 November 2021 (UTC) @Dawit S Gondaria Then I think the answer would be "No" - use a non-free image only in the article about that person or subject. Nick Moyes (talk) 10:18, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Nirmal Baby Varghese[edit] I have a doubt. The article Nirmal Baby Varghese I created was previously reviewed by an admin. It also showed up on Google search. But now why does that page not show up in Google search. BC171189 (talk) 08:58, 28 November 2021 (UTC) There are 14653 articles awaiting new page patrol at Special:NewPagesFeed. New articles are NOINDEXed until either reviewed at NPP or 90 days old. I don't know which admin you think reviewed the page; the logs show that it was reviewed by TheChronium, now blocked as a sockpuppet so the page was marked as unreviewed. --David Biddulph (talk) 09:52, 28 November 2021 (UTC) Hello::@David Biddulph:, Thank you for clearing my doubts with your clear reply. BC171189 (talk) 10:10, 28 November 2021 (UTC) Can a more experienced editor review the page "Druthers"? I think it should be a candidate for deletion.[edit] https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Druthers Numerous problems, but all citations go to druther's own website and advert like tone. Cripplemac (talk) 10:47, 28 November 2021 (UTC) I recommend Speedy deletion. David notMD (talk) 10:56, 28 November 2021 (UTC) @Cripplemac Welcome to the Teahouse. Yuk! what a promotional mess. I've moved it to Draft:Druthers lest there are three or four sources that someone might unearth that could demonstrate it's notable, though I doubt it. When considering an article for deletion, it's not just about what's already in the page that counts. See WP:BEFORE] to understand the steps editors are expected to go through prior to putting an article up for deletion. Thanks for drawing it to our attention. Nick Moyes (talk) 11:04, 28 November 2021 (UTC) Apropos of Canada-related junk articles, I came across Keltic Lodge today, a mere decade after it had been concocted. -- Hoary (talk) 12:10, 28 November 2021 (UTC) Does WP:NPOL covers Mayors of the cities?[edit] I think they don't but still wanted to confirm what others think. Somewhere I also remember a discussion that said mayors of major cities are considered notable but not for smaller cities. Nomadicghumakkad (talk) 14:38, 28 November 2021 (UTC) Hello, Nomadicghumakkad. The applicable language from WP:NPOL is Major local political figures who have received significant press coverage. This type of coverage is more likely for big city mayors than small town mayors, but in the end, it is the quality of the coverage in reliable sources that matters more than the size of the city. Cullen328 (talk) 17:20, 28 November 2021 (UTC) Hello from Carlos[edit] Carlos henrique vaz da costa oliveira (talk) 15:12, 28 November 2021 (UTC) @Carlos henrique vaz da costa oliveira: Hi! Do you have any question about editing Wikipedia? --CiaPan (talk) 15:34, 28 November 2021 (UTC) Possible citogenesis at Lipstick lesbian[edit] Back in February of this year there was a discussion here on a suspected case of citogenesis, that was 14 years old. There is a similar discussion currently ongoing at Talk:Lipstick lesbian. I've made a notification at Wikipedia talk:List of citogenesis incidents and I was wondering if there were any other appropriate venues to make a notification about this? Sideswipe9th (talk) 15:38, 28 November 2021 (UTC) Courtesy link: Citogenesis Casual readers of Wikipedia may be puzzled by the term Citogenesis, which refers to a story created from a mistaken Wikipedia article, which generates a lot of articles in the conventional press derived from the Wikipedia article, the WP article then citing those same press articles as its sources. See Randal's XKCD cartoon for explanation, [1] Elemimele (talk) 16:29, 28 November 2021 (UTC) Flagging content for revision?[edit] Hi folks, I’ve been really interested to learn about how Wikipedia managed to morph from an open source information repository plagued with vandalism and poorly referenced articles to something infinitely better than the encyclopaedias I grew up with. For now though I’m concerned about disinformation and the effect it has on functioning democracies so I’m motivated to help in some way. I’d like help understanding 2 things. 1) When I’ve found a search is unsuccessful so have clicked ‘request this page’ but backed out before following through I’ve always wondered if there is a bot which collects those search terms and perhaps analyses for frequent topics. Is this the case? 2) I’ve got a lot to learn and I really don’t want to step on anyone’s toes so any etiquette tips regarding how to approach disinformation would be much appreciated. I’ve picked a complicated example deliberately so that I can get some nuanced responses. I’m hoping seasoned editors can share a bit about the way they apply logic when ensuring that a media outlet is accurately described on Wikipedia. eg. 
“Because the academic and social progress of my students was at stake, I followed the COVID-19 data closely from the beginning. And I found that school closures were irrational and counterproductive. According to the most comprehensive studies to date, COVID’s survival rate among children and adolescents appears to be around 99.995%.” I then looked at the reference link provided (WSJ) and then wiki/The_Wall_Street_Journal
 “(The Journal's) editorial board has promoted views that are at odds with the scientific consensus on climate change, acid rain, and ozone depletion, as well as on the health dangers of passive smoking, pesticides, and asbestos.[13]” https://www.tabletmag.com/sections/news/articles/school-closures-covid-alex-gutentag [13] https://www.wsj.com/articles/in-children-risk-of-covid-19-death-or-serious-illness-remain-extremely-low-new-studies-find-11625785260 There is an 11yo page for ‘tabletmag’ but I don’t feel it accurately reflects that content. I can see that submissions are accepted so it’s clear an editorial decision was made to publish these 4 articles. Even with very little training in formal logic I can spot a ‘call to authority’ at 50 paces but I am a complete novice about process and context so how hosts relate their own editorial practice in relation to disinformation will help me work out whether there is anything useful I can contribute here. Ideally I’d like a cue sheet of ‘if/then’ actions I can take when the Tsunami of disinformation falls upon us as it undoubtedly will when an election is called. Thanks for any and all insight or messages related to this post. Please be kind. It has been a rough few years for everyone. EthicalAugur (talk) 15:52, 28 November 2021 (UTC) Hello, EthicalAugur and welcome to the Teahouse. Thank you for your kind words at the beginning. When you talk about "submissions are accepted" and "an editorial decision was made to publish these 4 articles", it sounds as if you are thinking that Wikipedia has something like an editorial board: it doesn't. Decisions are made by a consensus of any and all volunteer editors who choose to be involved in them. Publishing an article is more formal than it used to be, and it will generally get looked at by at least a new page patroller; but often only by that one editor. Probably the majority of new articles now come throughy the articles for creation mechanism, and will be reviewed by at least one editor before they are accepted into the encyclopaedia; but editors who are autoconfirmed may create new articles directly. We also have many many older articles that are seriously deficent and would not now be accepted. I see two complementary approaches to the issues you raise. One is to work on those specific articles, being BOLD, and/or discussing on their talk pages what needs doing. The other is to propose policies, or changes in policies: this is again achieved by consensus, and starts with a discussion at the village pump - or, if it affects only articles in a particular subject area, possibly in a WikiProject that covers that area. --ColinFine (talk) 16:23, 28 November 2021 (UTC) Lots of difficult thoughts, but they can be distilled, I think, into two simpler ideas. (1) Wikipedia isn't here to fight misinformation, or find the truth. It's here to report what other people say is the truth; and we rely on them, not ourselves, to fight misinformation. We try to avoid fringe conspiracy theories, and we evaluate our sources, but that's about our limit. (2) Wikipedia's strength against misinformation comes from the diversity and quantity of people who edit its articles. If one person is hoodwinked by a bad source, or one person is biased, they will be balanced by others who recognise the source is bad, or who have a different bias. The same idea applies to our sources. We rely on the idea that even if someone tries to disseminate misinformation, it is unlikely they will fool every reliable newspaper and author that has access to a printing press or the internet. Thank you for the question; it's good that we're made to think about such things. Elemimele (talk) 16:39, 28 November 2021 (UTC) Two comments: The list of "requested" pages is pretty much a graveyard. (I once decided to pull a request out of the list and try to make an article. I chose a request which, unlike almost all the others, supplied some references. I found that the references were to interviews with the subject, and so did not demonstrate notability. I tried to find better references, failed, and gave up.) The "eg" passage you quote above seems clueless. They don't close schools because the pupils might catch Covid and die, they close them because the pupils might catch Covid and transmit it to more vulnerable people. Maproom (talk) 16:54, 28 November 2021 (UTC) It is worth noting that editors here rely on consensus and we've developed a pretty comprehensive list of sources we consider are reliable (or not). See WP:RSPS for the summary. Also, for medical claims we have much higher level of source requirements, summarised in the policy at WP:MEDRS — an article well worth reading. If you look at the edit history of recently-updated articles on pharmaceuticals, for example molnupiravir, you'll see that quite a few entries are removals of material that don't meet that standard. Hence, I don't think that the WSJ article could ever be used as the sole source for that claim about children. If the claim was to stand in a WP article, I would hope the reference would be to a MEDRS-compliant source (e.g. a review article in a refereed scientific journal). You can see the sort of internal discussion that goes on on COVID-related topics if you look at Talk:Ivermectin and its archives. Mike Turnbull (talk) 17:11, 28 November 2021 (UTC) Thank you all very much for taking the time to respond. I’ll take some time to do the reading and get back to you if I get stuck. I’m clueless regarding tagging and response conventions so will see how the bots parse this before even attempting. NB my comments about submissions and editorial process relate only to the media site ‘tabletmag’ and definitely not to Wikipedia itself. I would like this to be clear from the outset. Can anyone fast track me regarding best practice guidelines for adding an NB: or EDIT: to my original post? EthicalAugur (talk) 01:41, 30 November 2021 (UTC) the end the fight[edit] how to contribute to the fight.. 69.7.254.75 (talk) 18:17, 28 November 2021 (UTC) Welcome to the Teahouse! Which fight are you referring to? If you're referring to the fight against vandalism, see Wikipedia:Vandalism. Hope this helps, and happy editing! GoingBatty (talk) 18:32, 28 November 2021 (UTC) Move article from Sandbox[edit] I am a new editor. I have had 10 edits+ and some contributions. I'd like to contribute more to the community but am failing to publish my first article. I read that an established publisher can be able to move my article from my sandbox if unable to do it myself. Please assist. Thanks Dalubuhle. DalubuhleLunga (talk) 18:33, 28 November 2021 (UTC) Hello, DalubuhleLunga. I assume that you are talking about User:DalubuhleLunga/sandbox, which is an unreferenced draft biography of a living person. By policy, all biographies of living people must be properly referenced. Also, you have external links in the body of the draft, which is not correct. Please read Your first article and follow the instructions there. Cullen328 (talk) 18:45, 28 November 2021 (UTC) Cullen328 Hie. Thanks alot, let me go through it. — Preceding unsigned comment added by DalubuhleLunga (talk • contribs) 18:47, 28 November 2021 (UTC) To you and other new accounts - the Publish changes rectangle at the bottom is really a 'Save' button. It does not submit a draft for review, nor publish it. David notMD (talk) 01:05, 29 November 2021 (UTC) I need help on changing pages[edit] FYI ?– Added header. Wikignome Wintergreentalk 19:29, 28 November 2021 (UTC) I keep getting blocked for vandalising pages but I just don’t know how to edit! — Preceding unsigned comment added by 86.12.228.137 (talk) 19:17, 28 November 2021 (UTC) I need some help on editing. I can’t edit I just vandalise and I am not an experienced editor! 86.12.228.137 (talk) 19:19, 28 November 2021 (UTC) 86.12.228.137 (talk) have you read Wikipedia:Wikipedia Adventure and Help:Introduction? If so, which parts of them are you having the most difficulties understanding? Asking specific questions, instead of stating you need help editing, will allow volunteers to know what assistance you need. Karenthewriter (talk) 19:41, 28 November 2021 (UTC) Quotes[edit] Hi there, I dont like the way the template quotebox looks and im looking for a different thing like it or a different way to quote it, are there any? Kaleeb18 (talk) 19:44, 28 November 2021 (UTC) @Kaleeb18: Well, Template:Quotation templates lists some alternatives, but most of them should be used sparingly, if at all, in actual articles—a simple {{Blockquote}} is what's most often suitable in articles. What do you want to use the quotation for? Deor (talk) 22:24, 28 November 2021 (UTC) well @Deor: in the article Woody (Toy Story) in the characteristics section the quote box just looks bad and i was wondering if there were better ones because I see different ways people put quotes on other articles. Kaleeb18 (talk) 03:33, 29 November 2021 (UTC) @Kaleeb18: I agree that the full-width quote box there looks clunky, since the "full-widthness" of the box makes it appear below the image of Hanks, at a random place in the middle of the section text. But that might best be fixed by adding some suitable parameters the quote-box template. Have a look at the quote boxes (with a yellowish background) in the Ezra Pound article, and note the parameters that were used to control their width and placement. (And see the documentation of Template:Quote box for a full list of possible parameters.) Mightn't you do something similar in the Woody article? Deor (talk) 18:18, 29 November 2021 (UTC) @Deor: Thank you, I think the quotebox looks much better now.Kaleeb18 (talk) 20:36, 29 November 2021 (UTC) After submission, my draft has two conflicting Afc templates[edit] When I first created my draft article Draft:Lucia Nifontova, it had an AfC submission template. After a lengthy editing period, I pressed the submission button and it seems to have added another AfC submission template without removing the first one (diff). Was it supposed to? My draft doesn't have the banner I typically see on other draft articles. Lee Choquette (talk) 20:12, 28 November 2021 (UTC) Lee Choquette I have cleaned it up. Roger (Dodger67) (talk) 20:52, 28 November 2021 (UTC) Dodger67 Thanks! Lee Choquette (talk) 23:16, 28 November 2021 (UTC) Can someone create a wikipedia page for me if I provide all the necessary information?[edit] Hello, my name is Chloe Bailey & I've been asked to create a Wikipedia page for a good friend of mine who plays basketball overseas. Unfortunately, I do not know what I'm doing and my sandbox and edits keep getting flagged. I can provide all the information and images & references A page was once created for the basketball player by a wiki admin. Everything was accurate except the admin listed him as deceased in which he contacted wiki and explained to them he was not dead and he wanted that information removed. Instead of just removing that bit of information, they removed the entire page. What do I need to do to have the page reinstated or does it need to go to another editor? I copied and pasted the information he sent to me. He's very relevant and notable. He played for the Minnesota Timberwolves until suffering a career-ending injury. Jermaine Barnes Jermaine Barnes https://ubanow.com https://wubanow.com https://www.theunitedcup.com/ Jermaine Barnes (born October 7, 1982) is an American former professional basketball player who also served as General Manager and Head Coach for the Rheinland Lions (Germany). Barnes played college basketball with the Abraham Baldwin Stallions for two years, before transferring to Point University for his senior season. He then started his professional career in Japan signing with the Saitama Broncos of the BJ League, a minor league basketball organization owned and run by the JBL. Barnes played for the USA National Team in 2012 (FIBA Jones Cup). He would sign a non-guaranteed contract with the Minnesota Timberwolves. He has also played professionally in Saudi Arabia, Mexico, Taiwan, Dominican Republic, Costa Rico, Uruguay, Spain, Lebanon, and Germany. At 6'4, Barnes can play any position around the perimeter and has a respectable post-game. His recorded accolades include multiple MVP awards, championships, first-team mentions, and an incredible 63-point performance while hooping professionally in Japan in 2008 (All-Japan Tournament). Barnes is a well-known force in the basketball world. Early life Jermaine Barnes was born in Atlanta, Georgia at Crawford Long Hospital. He grew up in Morrow, GA. Barnes attended and played basketball with Morrow High School. He started varsity as a freshman and sophomore was named All-Region. Barnes was offered several scholarships from Auburn, Tennessee, Georgia State, and Morris Brown University. He would lose all offers after losing academic eligibility as a junior. In his senior season, he led Morrow to the GHSA Regional and State playoffs while averaging 18 points and 11 rebounds per game. He graduated as the school's 3rd all-time leading scorer and rebounder. Morrow High School retired his number 15 after he graduated. Barnes opted to attend Abraham Baldwin, a community college near the city of Tifton. He starred and averaged 15.3 points and 8.7 rebounds after two full seasons. Barnes helped the Stallions to the best record in school history and a national ranking of 18th. However, after two years, he returned home to Atlanta and transferred to Point University. He reportedly did not qualify for NCAA Division I offers after not graduating from ABAC. He started his college career with Georgia Southwestern University in 2004, after sitting out the 2004–05 season while establishing academic eligibility. Barnes would not return to GSW after a season-ending injury to his ankle. While recovering from the ankle injury, combined with his conflict with coach Leeder, Barnes transferred schools to Point University who now plays in the National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics (NAIA). By transferring from an NCAA school to an NAIA school, Barnes did not have to sit out another season. He also switched his major from psychology/sociology to a business major. He concluded his college career thereby averaging 26.0 points, 11.2 rebounds, and 3.3 assists per game as a senior. He led the Point University Skyhawks to the ACC Championship and was named the SSAC Player of the Year. He then played in the 2006 National Basketball Tournament, leading the Skyhawks to the Sweet Sixteen, where they were defeated by the Southeastern. Despite failing to win the championship, Barnes was named as National Player of the Year by Usbasket.com and as co-Player of the Year the NCCAA. He would also be named USB First Team All-American. Professional Career Proline Tokyo Kings (2006–07) Barnes was automatically eligible for the 2006 NBA Draft after finishing his four-year college eligibility. However, he went undrafted. He then attended the NBA summer pro league, formerly known as the Southern California Summer Pro League, held in Long Beach, California. After receiving any interest Barnes signed a contract to play in the Japan Basketball Association (JBA) and join the lower-ranked Proline Tokyo Kings. On March 11, 2008, after playing 24 games while averaging 39.5 points and 10.9 rebounds with the Kings, Barnes was selected to play in the All-Japan Emperor's Cup. In 8 games Barnes would shock the country averaging an event best 48.9 points per game and setting the single-game scoring record with 63 points. Titanes de Miramar During the offseason, he was selected to play with Titanes de Miramar in the San Pedro League (Dominican Republic). He played in 10 games, averaging 26.1 points and 11.0 rebounds in 33.0 minutes per game. After being released, he opted to return to Asia with the Saitama Broncos in Japan. He left Tokyo in December 2008 and returned to the Proline Kings. Proline Tokyo Kings (2008) Barnes returned to his first club and led them to a Richie Cup Championship and the Finals in the All-Japan Emperor’s Cup. He would be named MVP after leading all scores for the second season. Club Atletico Universitario Salto (2009) On Jan 3, 2009, Barnes was signed to a contract by the Club Atletico Universitario (Uruguay). Barnes helped the club to its first playoff appearance averaging a league-best 29.0 points per game. Al Ahli Jeddah (2009–10) Jermaine Barnes signed to play in Saudi Arabia for Al Ahli Jeddah. GIE Maile Matrix (2010-2017) Barnes would join the Universal Basketball Association (UBA). After playing in 37 games and averaging 30.1 points on 51.0 percent shooting, 9.0 rebounds, and 3.1 assists per game, Barnes was featured in SLAM Magazine. He was spotted by the company after scoring a league-record 60 points. He would go on to win five UBA championships and four MVP awards. Frayles de Guasave (2011) Jermaine Barnes signed to play in Mexico for Frayles de Guasave. Titanes de Miramar (2011–12) In September 2012, Barnes would rejoin the Titanes. He would again lead the league in scoring with 26.8 points per game. USA National Team (2012) The summer of 2012 Barnes was selected to play on the USA National Team. The club would travel to Taipei, Taiwan to participate in the 34th Annual FIBA Williams Jones Cup. Barnes would help the Americans to a silver medal while also being named to the AsiaBasket.com All-FIBA Jones Cup 2nd Team. He would be remembered for his stand-out games versus Chinese Taipei and the gold medal game versus the Philippines. These two games would ultimately lead to him being requested to an NBA training camp with the Timberwolves. Yenicami A?delen Kulübü (2013-2014) On December 4, 2013, he signed with the Yenicami in Cyprus. In 20 games Barnes led the club to its first playoff appearance ever. He finished the season ranked in the top three in points (19.0), rebounds (9.1), and assists (7.0). Barnes was later named Eurobasket.com Forward of the Year. He was also selected to the All-Star Team. Barnes did not play in the 2014–15 basketball season reportedly because of a knee injury he suffered. Minnesota Timberwolves (2014) On August 18, 2014, Barnes signed a non-Guaranteed contract with the Minnesota Timberwolves. He attended mini-camp and was released. Barnes did not play in the 2014–15 basketball season reportedly because of a knee injury he suffered. He was reportedly sidelined with a career-ending leg injury that required three procedures in 2015. Pueblo Nuevo (2015) On February 4, 2015, he signed with Pueblo Nuevo for the 2015 Santiago League in the Dominican Republic. Barnes did not play in the 2014–15 basketball season reportedly due to a knee injury he suffered. GIE Maile Matrix (2017) In September 2017, Barnes would return to basketball to test his repaired leg. He would again lead the league in scoring with 29.0 points per game. Liberia (Costa Rica (2017-2018) On January 4, 2018, he signed with Liberia in Costa Rica. He would lead the club in scoring with 26.0 points per game average. Chabibeh Sporting Club (2018) On June 15, 2018, he signed with the Chabibeh Sporting Club for the 2018 Liga Mediterranean Cup. Barnes would help Lebanon to a gold medal in Barcelona, Spain. He would be named EuroBasket.com All-Liga Mediterranean Cup Player of the Year. Tonga National Team (2019) On February 4, 2019, he signed with the Tonga National Team for the 2017 United Cup (formerly known as the Copa Mitchell Cup). Barnes would help Tonga to a gold medal in Santiago. He would be named LatinBasket.com All-United Cup Guard of the Year. TLG Bulldogs (2020) Jermaine Barnes signed to play in Germany for TLG Bulldogs. The season was canceled due to COVID-19. References NCAA D1 stats: https://www.espn.com/mens-college-basketball/player/_/id/28927/jermaine-barnes NCAA Player of the Year: https://www.usbasket.com/NCAA3/basketball_2006.aspx Slam online: https://www.slamonline.com/archives/more-than-just-a-league/ Slam Magazine: https://www.slamonline.com/archives/the-journey-of-jermaine-barnes/ Dominican Rep: https://www.latestbasketballnews.com/jermaine-barnes-deals-pueblo-nuevo/ NBA: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GFTq2jPSNqk NBA rosters: https://basketball.usbasket.com/team/NBA/Minnesota-Timberwolves/249?Page=4 UBA: https://www.ubanow.com/award-winners . Cbailey10 (talk) 20:28, 28 November 2021 (UTC) Hello and welcome to the Teahouse, the information you have can not be original research your information must come from reliable sources. Kaleeb18 (talk) 20:40, 28 November 2021 (UTC) I strongly suggest you read Wikipedia:Your First Article Kaleeb18 (talk) 20:56, 28 November 2021 (UTC) Hello @Cbailey10:. Not every sportsperson warrants having their own Wikipedia article. The first thing to do is determine whether your friend satisfies that standard, which Wikipedia calls "notability". Take a good look at the criteria listed at Wikipedia:Notability (sports) and particularly WP:NBASKETBALL to see if they qualify. If not, then it may just be too soon in their career to have an article. But if they do meet the standard then gather up all the reliable sources and the best place to find a volunteer to write the article is probably the Wikiproject related to basketball, namely Wikipedia_talk:WikiProject_Basketball. --Gronk Oz (talk) 21:04, 28 November 2021 (UTC) Kaleeb18, from their tone albeit I haven’t seen the article in question, i do not believe this to be them having a problem with original research but a potential COI. @Cbailey10 first off, hello and welcome to the Teahouse, you are strongly advised not to create articles for people you are familiar with in any capacity. See WP:COI & WP:NOT. Furthermore as for referencing properly you might want to see WP:REFB and then WP:CITE. Please see WP:YFA also. If there is a potential COI or you haven’t learnt how this collaborative project works, you can please go here and include the name of the article you want to see created. Celestina007 (talk) 21:02, 28 November 2021 (UTC) At the top: A page was once created for the basketball player by a wiki admin. Everything was accurate except the admin listed him as deceased in which he contacted wiki and explained to them he was not dead and he wanted that information removed. Instead of just removing that bit of information, they removed the entire page. I see no evidence of this. There has never been an article titled "Jermaine Barnes". Draft:Jermaine barnes (small "B") was declined (not rejected, let alone deleted) on 15 April '21. Cbailey10, you have been working on Draft:Jermaine Barnes (big "B") from 3 November '21. You're free to continue to do so. Incidentally, though you say my sandbox and edits keep getting flagged, you have never edited your sandbox. (Have you perhaps also edited under a different user name?) If you mean that the draft you're working on keeps getting flagged, well, yes. For one thing, as Barnes is a living person, assertions must be linked to references; it's not enough for a screenful of text to be followed by a list of sources; we need to know which part comes from where. -- Hoary (talk) 22:55, 28 November 2021 (UTC) Editing declined draft article[edit] https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Draft:W._Franklyn_Richardson How do I edit a declined draft article in the VisualEditor? What are tildes? VelorrWrite (talk) 22:25, 28 November 2021 (UTC) VelorrWrite, it seems to me that you must have used tildes to sign your question. Anyway, it's a curvy mark that you sometimes find (among other place) over the letter "n" in written Spanish. And at least on the English keyboard, it's the key at the top left, just to the left of the number 1; you have to shift. Uporz?dnicki (talk) 23:08, 28 November 2021 (UTC) @VelorrWrite: You edit a declined draft in the VisualEditor the same you edit an article: by clicking the "Edit" tab. A tilde looks like this: ~ Hope this helps, and happy editing! GoingBatty (talk) 03:58, 29 November 2021 (UTC) new article immediately public withut review?[edit] Hi, I guess a quick question with quick answer here: I just worked on my second article for the english wiki and I am a bit confused as to why the process seems different. Last time I wrote something like a draft and then - when I felt it was ready - I actively had to submit it to be reviewed by someone before it got published. I assumed that this would be the standard work process. However, now in my second article I don´t find this button to send it to review. Is it already public now? I actually would have liked to keep it in draft mode for today and look over it again tomorrow before submitting. I probably did something different this time, but I am not sure what it was. Would love to have the draft option next time again if possible, as people last time suggested I should not use my sandbox to draft an article :-) Here is the article: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gyrinus_gibbus Thanks! Anja Ajottel (talk) 22:41, 28 November 2021 (UTC) Ajottel, I've had a look at Gyrinus gibbus, and it seems fine to me, it deserves its status as an article. You created it directly in article space without going through the review procedure. So it's public, but you can still improve if if you wish. Well-written articles about animal and plant species are rarely a problem. Articles about "upcoming" bands generally are a problem - I recommend keeping away from those. Maproom (talk) 23:02, 28 November 2021 (UTC) Maproom Thanks for having a look. Where can I make a draft next time? I forgot how I found it last time... I think I just followed a link someone gave me. I have to admit the user surface of wikipedia is very difficult to crasp and I never find anything :-/ Is there a search function for these kind of questions? The regular search of course does not really lead to the results I need but to any article related to drafts... Here is a tip for you, Ajottel. Type WP and then a colon and then a plausible keyword into the search box. In this case, WP:DRAFT leads to a page with all the information you need to work with drafts. Cullen328 (talk) 23:17, 28 November 2021 (UTC) National Centre for Australian Children's Literature major update to the Wikiprdia entry[edit] Hello, I have been tasked with updating the entry for the National Centre for Australian Children's Literature. The entry is very out-of-date as there have been significant changes to the Centre since it was done and the amount of editing would be huge. After some discussion we are considering whether it would be better to create a completely new entry for the Centre. However we do not know if this is possible - can you please advise? Thank you Ruth Nitschke National Centre for Australian Children's Literature Ruth Nitschke (talk) 23:29, 28 November 2021 (UTC) It would be best to update the article. Be sure to consider and declare your WP:COI and WP:PAID issues before contributing. Regards, Ariconte (talk) 23:43, 28 November 2021 (UTC) Hello, Ruth Nitschke. I recommend that you use the Edit request process at Talk: National Centre for Australian Children's Literature. Creating a completely new article is rarely acceptable and can be perceived as showing disrespect to the 22 editors who have worked on this article over the past ten years. I recommend that you request a series of small, incremental edit requests in the form of "please change X to Y", accompanying each request with a link to a reliable source verifying the new content. Lengthy, complex requests are far less likely to be successful. Cullen328 (talk) 01:41, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Userboxes[edit] How do i use userboxes? I am struggling positioning them...is there a way to do that? TheAlienMan2002 (talk) 00:00, 29 November 2021 (UTC) You can use a table to force them to sit where you want them to; what way is it you'd like them to display? ??????? ? 00:07, 29 November 2021 (UTC) I want to display then on the right and make them go down. TheAlienMan2002 (talk) 00:12, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Okay, try using the following code and just add each box in a new line as shown: {| align="right" 
|-
|{{first userbox}}
|-
|{{second userbox}}
|-
|{{third userbox}}
|}

 That should create an invisible table forcing its contents into right alignment, the boxes will then stack under each other to the right. ??????? ? 01:37, 29 November 2021 (UTC) @TheAlienMan2002: You could also use {{Userboxtop}} and {{Userboxbottom}} if you like. Hope this helps, and happy editing! GoingBatty (talk) 04:05, 29 November 2021 (UTC) thank you!! TheAlienMan2002 (talk) 10:36, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Citation[edit] I made a mistake while editing Patrick Surtain the second's page with the citation, will someone plase help me? InternetScavenger89 (talk) 03:36, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Presumably Patrick Surtain II. -- Hoary (talk) 03:57, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Viewed as a set, InternetScavenger89, this set of edits of yours seems OK. Perhaps you made a mistake and later fixed it yourself. -- Hoary (talk) 04:00, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Reinstating a deleted page[edit] An article / wiki page on Sarala Roy was recently removed due to a citation issue. How can I find that article, fix the citation, and put it back in? Please help, thank you. Chetanroy (talk) 05:23, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Sarala Roy wasn't removed for a "citation issue" it was removed as a copyright violation. We could only restore it if we receive permission from the copyright holder via VRT. Anyone is allowed to write a new version though. Victor Schmidt mobil (talk) 06:06, 29 November 2021 (UTC) ARTICLE DELETED[edit] Hello all. How can I retrieve my deleted draft article? It was marked speed delete. Munyua44 (talk) 06:56, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Munyua44, why would you want to retrieve Draft:Jean M. Nelson? I mean, what's your purpose? Espresso Addict deleted it as "Unambiguous advertising or promotion"; looking at it, I'd say that this description fits it perfectly. -- Hoary (talk) 07:06, 29 November 2021 (UTC) @Munyua44 That’s unlikely to happen, especially as the single sentence currently on your own userpage suggests you have great difficulty writing anything non-hyperbolic. Nick Moyes (talk) 08:53, 29 November 2021 (UTC) From IMBd "Jean M. Nelson is one of the most creative personalities in the music and film industry." he sounds like an accomplished person, but a quick search did not uncover any reliable source references with content written about him. IMBd, Instagram, SoundCloud, Facebook, etc., do not convey notability. David notMD (talk) 17:52, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Junk like that is precisely why IMDb is not a reliable source. Cullen328 (talk) 17:59, 29 November 2021 (UTC) @Munyua44: I've had another look and I'm not minded to restore. If you want to formally contest my decision, then you can try Wikipedia:Deletion review. However, you would honestly be better advised to start again, trying to write neutrally in your own words, and including only things that are stated in reliable sources, such as magazine or newspaper articles. Note that IMDb is not considered sufficiently reliable. Good luck! Espresso Addict (talk) 23:44, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Question re:Wikipedia:Protection policy#extended[edit] How do I add an essential resource textbook to a page that has the 'extended Protection Policy'? Specifically referring to these pages: Jordanian annexation of the West Bank [[Israeli War#Further reading]] Beni92 (talk) 08:43, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Beni92 (talk) 08:43, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Beni92 Hello and welcome to the Teahouse. Please offer your proposed edits on the article talk pages (Talk:Jordanian annexation of the West Bank) as edit requests(click for instructions). Also please be aware that editing about the Israeli/Palestinian conflict carries with it some special rules, I will post information about this on your user talk page. 331dot (talk) 08:47, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Make an extended confirmed edit request at the talk page with this template: {{edit extended-protected}} Followed by the reason. – AssumeGoodWraith (talk | contribs) 08:51, 29 November 2021 (UTC) What does the "im" mean in "uw-(whatever)4im"?[edit] I can't seem to get the answer anywhere. – AssumeGoodWraith (talk | contribs) 08:45, 29 November 2021 (UTC) AssumeGoodWraith This page is for questions about editing or using Wikipedia. What is the context? Is this something you've seen in a Wikipedia article? Which one?--Shantavira|feed me 09:09, 29 November 2021 (UTC) @Shantavira: It's just a random thought. Is the teahouse the wrong place for this? – AssumeGoodWraith (talk | contribs) 09:10, 29 November 2021 (UTC) (edit conflict) The context is what the im means in user warning templates like Template:Uw-vandalism4im and Template:Uw-delete4im (and how is it different to Template:Uw-vandalism4)? I don't know the answer, but hopefully someone else does. Joseph2302 (talk) 09:13, 29 November 2021 (UTC) I've always read it as "Immediate". These templates are for the use case of going for a final warning immediately instead of escalating lesser warnings. —Kusma (talk) 09:24, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Kusma He's talking about user warning templates. Firestar464 (talk) 09:28, 29 November 2021 (UTC) So am I. —Kusma (talk) 09:33, 29 November 2021 (UTC) @AssumeGoodWraith The “im” means “immediate”. There are occasions (IP hopping/socks/egregious activity) where it is felt unnecessary to give a stepped series of increasingly stern warnings, but to give a forceful one immediately to the offender. See this deletion discussion from 2012. As a Twinkle user, I can’t say that I pay huge attention to the actual template names being deployed, but assume it is delivering the most appropriate one for any given situation. I find ‘Preview’ quite valuable to check. I hope that helps? Nick Moyes (talk) 09:38, 29 November 2021 (UTC) "immediate" was the common guess at Wikipedia talk:Template index/User talk namespace/Archive 16#Question about titles but nobody was sure. 4im has been copied since Template:Test4im, created in 2005 by Jtdirl who apparently never explained it. If it didn't have such a plausible meaning then maybe people wouldn't have kept using it so "immediate" may be the de facto meaning no matter what Jtdirl originally thought. PrimeHunter (talk) 16:39, 29 November 2021 (UTC) BCCI Cricket logo[edit] Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) article have a logo under fair use policy, can I use this logo in India national cricket team article, the team also use same logo on helmet and on jercy. If their is no objection to use this logo on article, then why some editors removed this logo from Indian cricket team's article after I included it there ?. Newton Euro (talk) 10:48, 29 November 2021 (UTC) I see that you have had an explanation at User talk:Newton Euro#BCCI logo. --David Biddulph (talk) 14:26, 29 November 2021 (UTC) publishing a new page[edit] Hi, I recently uploaded my first page - on the Children's Media Conference in the UK https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Draft:Children%27s_Media_Conference Wondering if someone would be able to take a look at it and tell me if it's ok? It's my first time writing for Wiki and I'm still a bit unsure of the submissions and review process. I've taken care to make the article impartial and to provide proper references. Appreciate another pair of eyes! Thank you Evadne elenchan (talk) 11:05, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Hello Evadne elenchan and welcome to the Teahouse. One thing that immediately strikes me in your draft is that you have re-used some references multiple times (e.g. 1/15, 12/13, 18/19). These need to be combined using WP:Refname. There is a beginners guide at WP:ERB. Mike Turnbull (talk) 13:15, 29 November 2021 (UTC) thank you Mike Turnbull I have done that now! Let me know anything else that jumps out at you. Thanks — Preceding unsigned comment added by Evadne elenchan (talk • contribs) 21:22, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Draft Jitsu Squad[edit] My draft was rejected. What more do I need to do for it not to need rejected? The message for it being rejected was convoluted and it's not telling me straightforward what's needed. Please assist. Sonicteam2k7 (talk) 11:14, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Sonicteam2k7, your draft Draft:Jitsu Squad (Video Game) was not rejected; it was declined. The game hasn't yet even appeared. Wait for it to appear and to be commented on in reliable sources. Then use those reliable sources to resume your work on the draft. -- Hoary (talk) 11:26, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Hoary, Thanks for the follow up. I'm not sure how this works as there have been entries for even canceled games. This game's demo is playable, there's footage all over twitch and YouTube, there's a steam entry with a downloadable demo. Can a game be entered before release? Also what would be considered a notable source, I posted the developers website. — Preceding unsigned comment added by Sonicteam2k7 (talk • contribs) 12:11, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Hello, Sonicteam2k7. The issue is almost entirely to do with Notability, which mostly means, "Has enough been published about it, in reliable places, by people unconnected with the game and its development, to ground an article?" - remembering that Wikipedia is not interested in what the subject of an article says or wants to say about themselves, or what their associates say about them. Wikipedia is only interested in what people who have no connection with the subject, and who have not been prompted or fed information on behalf of the subject, have chosen to publish about the subject in reliable sources. In rare cases a game (or a film or TV series) is discussed enough in print before its release that an article is possible; but not usually: see WP:TOOSOON --ColinFine (talk) 13:17, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Thanks for the information everyone. — Preceding unsigned comment added by Sonicteam2k7 (talk • contribs) 14:55, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Articles[edit] How do you make articles? 216.107.236.82 (talk) 14:19, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Articles are allowed only on subjects which meet Wikipedia's definition of notability. For further information, if you are satisfied that your intended subject satisfies that definition, see the advice at WP:Your first article. --David Biddulph (talk) 14:23, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Okay, thank you. 216.107.236.82 (talk) 14:27, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Strongly recommend creating a Wikipedia account before attempting to draft/create an article. Having an account makes communication amoung editors much easier. David notMD (talk) 17:45, 29 November 2021 (UTC) page notability[edit] Hello Sir, I am excited to be part of the wikipedia family of editors. I have just started editing. I wish to know if there is a page of a film which is not released or completed yet can there be a page on it? There are no proper citations which show its notability or success. What should one do ? I noticed about a page which has not much significance. Whom should I point it out to ?or let it be for expert editors to work on it.Jumboweb (talk) 14:28, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Jumboweb (talk) 14:28, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Jumboweb Hello and welcome to the Teahouse. The notability criteria for films is written at WP:NFILM. Generally, a film must be released to be notable, and any article about it must summarize what independent reliable sources with significant coverage have chosen on their own to say about the film. If you have no sources, the film cannot be on Wikipedia. I gather that you have an association with this film, please review conflict of interest. 331dot (talk) 14:39, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Thanks for your reply. I am aware that wikipedia is very strict in its rules hence asked a question. I am not in anyway associated with the film. But noticed there are many such pages floated on films which have not been released or don't really fit the criteria of notability but still are on wikipedia. one such example is page Tauba Tera Jalwa. Thus was curious to know what happens to such pages.Jumboweb (talk) 18:54, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Jumboweb I don't know the ins and outs of the notability of films, but there are plenty of articles on Wikipedia that should be deleted, but no one has gotten around to deleting them yet -- and it's possible that this is one of them. You might want to ask at WT:FILM if this qualifies for an article. If it doesn't, you could nominate it for deletion at WP:AFD. Calliopejen1 (talk) 19:18, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Sure Sir , Thank you. Will refer to the topics you suggestedJumboweb (talk) 07:22, 30 November 2021 (UTC) How to use Templates[edit] Hello! I was wonering how templates work, as I would like to make basic articles stand out a litle bit. Would you please explain? Thank you all! NLKD 204.116.209.8 (talk) 15:01, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Hello IP and welcome to the Teahouse! It would depend on what template you're wanting to use as different templates work (and are used) differently. SOme templates you simply just place on the page and it works, others you have to add specific parameters (the stuff you add after a pipe (|), i.e |date=2021). I'm going to take a guess that you're wanting to use an infobox template, and if so then MOS:IBX might be a good read. ? Blaze The WolfTalkBlaze Wolf#6545 15:08, 29 November 2021 (UTC) See also Help:A quick guide to templates. PrimeHunter (talk) 16:07, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Edit count[edit] Hello, I realized on my IPad it say I have made 470, but on my laptop it says I have like 870. Does my laptop count the number of edits I’ve mad on both my laptop and IPad or just my laptop? I also assume the IPad just counts the number of edits I’ve made on the IPad. Kaleeb18 (talk) 15:28, 29 November 2021 (UTC) @Kaleeb18: You have approximately 900 edits in total, and about 470 of those are to main (article) space. See your edit count. Perhaps you use a mobile skin on the iPad and a Desktop skin on the laptop that have different assumptions on what you'd like to see, and one of them gives you only article edits, the other all edits. —Kusma (talk) 15:34, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Any edit count will be based on which account was used and not which device or browser. PrimeHunter (talk) 15:56, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Oh gotcha and thank you. Kaleeb18 (talk) 16:07, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Kaleeb18, you might also be interested in Special:Homepage. The "Your impact" panel shows how many people have been viewing articles you edited recently. ? Pelagic ( messages ) 09:12, 30 November 2021 (UTC) @Pelagic: I’ve seen that before like right now it like 950,000 people have seen my edits, but it’s been like 2 mil. before. Kaleeb18 (talk) 15:20, 30 November 2021 (UTC) @Pelagic: Pinging them since you accidentally linked to the disambig page for ping instead of using the template ? Blaze The WolfTalkBlaze Wolf#6545 15:25, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Resubmitting the Draft:Karlheinz Krauth[edit] Hi dear all, unfortunatly the submission for my draft about Prof.Karlheinz Krauth, a full Prof. of Uni Stuttgart (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Draft:Karlheinz_Krauth) has been declined on 7 November 2021. Meanwhile I came up with some additional references and I checked if my subject does follow the given criteria of WP:NACADEMIC. My conclusion is that, as far as I am aware, Prof. Krauth's curriculum vitae incorporates/fulfils the following criteria: 1a) He is listed in scopus with 15 documents in influential journals e.g. Water Science and Technology and Water Research (ref. 18 and 19). 1b) Regarding significant new concepts: He was the holder of a patent, that was very influential in the field of wastewater treatment (ref. 21). Moreover, with his doctoral thesis, he laid the foundation for the construction of retention tanks in combined sewer systems – a now widely used method to prevent against flooding (ref.10, ref.12). 1f) + 5): Krauth was a full Professor of the department of civil engineering at the Institute for Sanitary Engineering, Water Quality and Solid Waste Management, University of Stuttgart (https://www.iswa.uni-stuttgart.de/en/, https://www.iswa.uni-stuttgart.de/institut/team/Krauth-00003/). He had an education in civil engineering, a major discipline (ref. 4,6,7,8). 2) Prestigious academic awards: Up to my knowledge the Karl Imhoff Award (1971), the Federal Cross of Merit of the Republic of Germany (1995) and the Max Prüss Medal of the DWA (2004) are regarded as prestigious academic awards at least in German-speaking countries. I have listed and linked all three (https://en.dwa.de/en/awards-and-prizes.html as well as https://www.gfa-news.de/webcode.html?wc=20201015_002 - his obituary, in which all his awards are mentioned). 6) Major post: Prof. Krauth was speaker of the ATV (today DWA (https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deutsche_Vereinigung_f%C3%BCr_Wasserwirtschaft,_Abwasser_und_Abfall), a nonprofit organization and knowledge hub for the water sector in Germany, comparable to IWA (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Water_Association)) main committee "Gewässerschutz und Abwasserreinigung" from 1987 to 1999. This is referenced in ref. 16 and 17. 7) Substantial impact outside academia: Prof. Krauth initiated and organized training-courses for the operating personnel of wastewater treatment plants. I think this is a very important and influential work to improve and advance water protection. Ref 25 provides information on his activities in this area. So, I see seven of the required criteria as fulfilled and therefore would now regard the provided data as sufficient to allow an entry about Prof. Krauth to wikipedia. Thank you for help and your reasoned opinion on whether I am correct or references are still missing and in what way they should be completed. Hager Irene (talk) 16:27, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Hager Irene (talk) 16:31, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Welcome to the Teahouse, Hager Irene. Your updated draft may well be accepted now you have added the extra information — use the re-submit button when you're ready. However, I note that in the Honours and Awards section you have included external links to websites for the awards. This is rarely allowed in the body of an article (see WP:EL). You should instead make each external link into a reference which readers could use to verify that Krauth actually won the awards stated. It is OK to Wikilink the name of the award to an article about that award, if one exists. I note, for example that there is an article on Karl Imhoff but not the award itself. It would also help if you used short quotations in English from some of the references, so readers could briefly see what the references said. Mike Turnbull (talk) 17:38, 29 November 2021 (UTC) @Mike Turnbull Hi, thank you for your help and the information. I'll resubmit when I have completed the changes. Hager Irene (talk) 17:50, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Hager Irene I would also recommend pasting what you wrote above at the top of your draft, so that the reviewer can see it. Calliopejen1 (talk) 19:14, 29 November 2021 (UTC) New Page Reviewer Question[edit] Do I have to have 500 edits or more to become a new pages reviewer? I only have about 210, but want to become a new pages reviewer to help with Wikipedia. HelixxUnderscore (talk) 18:57, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Hello HelixxUnderscore and welcome to the Teahouse. Generally speaking, 500 edits in mainspace is needed, yes. It's more of a guideline and not an exact rule; however, I've found through experience that it's much better not to rush into things. I would try doing some new work at Special:NewPages for a while; you'll come up to 500 in time. It also requires experience etc; it's better to get into things bit by bit, until you have more experience. It's great that you want to help out also; keep it up! Cheers, Rubbish computer Ping me or leave a message on my talk page 19:20, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Thanks Rubbish computer, but just one more thing, what type of stuff can I do at Special:NewPages? HelixxUnderscore (talk) 16:51, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Hi HelixxUnderscore, sorry for the delayed response, was very busy with college work. There's videos and information at Wikipedia:New pages patrol which go over it in more detail. There's lots that can be done, anything from spelling and grammar issues, to categorising pages, to keeping out spam and vandalism. I think that page covers all the main activities. Cheers, Rubbish computer Ping me or leave a message on my talk page 22:41, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Generalized on English language vs Specialized on Foreign Language[edit] Hi all. I'm writing an article on an individual who was born in a Cossack family. Generally Cossacks are interpreted to be of Ukrainian or Russian descent, however this individual was not Slavic but of Buryat(Mongolian) descent. There is an article on Buryat Cossacks on the Russian language wiki(this does not exist on the English wikipedia) but this would create a red link and I am trying to keep red links to a minimum. On the other hand I could add the English language wikilink on Cossacks but this could create confusion about things such as his nationality. What is the ideal thing to do here? Many thanks. Jaguarnik (talk) 19:00, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Hello, Jaguarnik. There is an English language article about the Buryats. Link to that as well. Cullen328 (talk) 19:06, 29 November 2021 (UTC) I've already linked to the Buryats in his nationality and description but I mean in his early life. I say "he was born to a Buryat Cossack family" and that's where my dilemma is.Jaguarnik (talk) 19:58, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Jaguarnik, There is nothing wrong with creating redlinks, but you could say "Buryat Cossack" or you could link to the Russian article. Zoozaz1 (talk) 20:20, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Thanks all for the help.Jaguarnik (talk) 20:37, 29 November 2021 (UTC) To expand on Zoozaz1's answer, Jaguarnik, the benefit of including red links is that it encourages other editors to consider creating an article about the subject. Cordless Larry (talk) 20:50, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Jaguarnik, you can use {{ill}} to create a redlink plus a link to ruwiki: Buryat Cossacks [ru] ? Pelagic ( messages ) 12:41, 30 November 2021 (UTC) I am trying to create a page for Kylan Guerra.[edit] He is a professional Basketball player who plays overseas. I tried to mimic other pages of players in the same field but keep getting my submission rejected. Apparently, I am having trouble with the references. Can you help? 159.123.253.1 (talk) 19:51, 29 November 2021 (UTC) @User:159.123.253.1 By rejected, do you mean on Wikipedia:Articles for creation? If you're having trouble with references, you should cite information about him from information sources, such as news articles and interviews. --Xland44 (talk) 20:27, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Courtesy link: Draft:Kylan Guerra, created and most recently edited by Ginger Rocky. ? Blaze The WolfTalkBlaze Wolf#6545 20:30, 29 November 2021 (UTC) User also removed AFC templates from the same page. I have not added them back as I'm unsure if that would be appropriate or not. ? Blaze The WolfTalkBlaze Wolf#6545 20:32, 29 November 2021 (UTC) IP editor, you have not formatted your references properly. Please read Referencing for beginners. Cullen328 (talk) 22:25, 29 November 2021 (UTC) @Blaze The Wolf: I restored the AfC templates, as they contain helpful info for the draft author and future reviewers. GoingBatty (talk) 05:14, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Teahouse[edit] is there any certain goals or anything that can make you host of the teahouse? TheAlienMan2002 (talk) 19:51, 29 November 2021 (UTC) @TheAlienMan2002 Welcome to the Teahouse and to Wikipedia. Yes, all Teahouse hosts need to be experienced at editing Wikipedia and also to be able to welcome and communicate in a friendly and effective manner to new users like yourself who might be seeking guidance or advice. Whilst anyone who knows the right answer to give a new user may respond to any question posted here, we only expect editors to actually sign themselves up as a Host if they have been active on Wikipedia for a minimum of 30 days and have made around 500 mainspace edits. As you will have seen, our requirements are listed as follows: »An editor who understands how Wikipedia works »Helpful to new people, with a clear and friendly manner »Familiar with the Teahouse project »Someone who has been here for at least 30 days and has made around 500 mainspace edits »Happy to follow our simple 'host expectations' I hope this gives you the answer you were seeking. Regards from the UK, Nick Moyes (talk) 22:50, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Is there a template that says [How?] or [How so?]?[edit] To add next to a statement so that it can be explained? I don't know what it's called (weasel words?). I've only seen [By whom?] or [When?], but never seen [How?]. Lupine453 (talk) 20:11, 29 November 2021 (UTC) @Lupine453, hello and welcome to the Teahouse, you might be looking for this; [how?] try copying this {{how}}. That should do the trick. Celestina007 (talk) 20:16, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Thank you Lupine453 (talk) 20:35, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Lupine453 I'm late on parade again, but for a full list of these tags please see Template:Inline cleanup tags - rather annoyingly, some tags have a ? and some don't - so they are not all intuitive and I always use print preview to check (I know I should anyway!) - Arjayay (talk) 15:33, 30 November 2021 (UTC) @Arjayay, next time you type a tag and it comes out red on preview, perhaps you should save it as is, click the redlink and redirect it to the blue one you were going for. Regards! Usedtobecool ?? 17:04, 30 November 2021 (UTC) @Arjayay, Oh good to know. Thank you. Lupine453 (talk) 17:44, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Editing an Academic-written review entry[edit] Hi, what are the guidelines for dual-publication entries - specifically those that use the "Academic-written review" template? Are these types of entries meant to be left as is so that they continue to be line with the corresponding journal article, or can those types of entries be edited the same as any other Wikipedia article? Thank you. CNYLibrarian (talk) 20:20, 29 November 2021 (UTC) @CNYLibrarian could you give us an example of such an article please. I've been a regular editor since 2007 but I have no idea what you're asking about. Roger (Dodger67) (talk) 20:58, 29 November 2021 (UTC) @Dodger67 Thank you for your reply! There are several, the one I am interested in editing is Folliculin. A list of all of them also exists. This is the template info. CNYLibrarian (talk) 21:13, 29 November 2021 (UTC) CNYLibrarian, those articles will continue to be edited. The reviewed version is published in the journal. The article could be re-reviewed and published again if there are significant changes. What journal are you expecting to publish in? The article has already had 28 editors. How will they be credited in the publication? StarryGrandma (talk) 01:58, 30 November 2021 (UTC) @StarryGrandma Thank you for answering my question, it's greatly appreciated. I am not looking to publish a journal article, but would like to update the Wikipedia entry with info from additional recent research articles. Since it was the first dual-publication article I've run across in Wikipedia, I wanted to be sure that there weren't editing guidelines that I failed to locate and should know about. Thanks again! CNYLibrarian (talk) 03:07, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Hi CNYLibrarian! I'm not aware of any guidelines, but like StarryGrandma I expect the articles would continue to be edited in the normal manner. I'd incline to using the same caution as with a "Good Article". ? Pelagic ( messages ) 12:56, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Thank you, everyone!! CNYLibrarian (talk) 14:14, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Image published under CC BY-NC-SA 4.0[edit] Does an image/artwork from 1585 contained in a book which is published under CC BY-NC-SA 4.0 belong to public domain? Can it be uploaded to wikimedia commons? I am talking about this image which I have uploaded to English Wikipedia under fair use clause but now I discover that the entire book that contains this artwork is published under CC BY-NC-SA 4.0. Can I transfer this to commons? If yes, with what rationale? Thanks in advance. Mosesheron II (talk) 20:22, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Any image from 1585 is definitely in public domain now regardless where it is currently published. Ruslik_Zero 21:02, 29 November 2021 (UTC Hello, Mosesheron II. I agree that any image that old is definitely in the public domain. As for the CC BY-NC-SA 4.0 license, that allows for non-commercial re-use only, and so it is not compatible with Wikipedia's licensing, which allows re-use for any purposes including commercial use. Cullen328 (talk) 22:53, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Hi, Mosesheron II! For the gory details, see c:Commons:When to use the PD-Art tag and c:Commons:Reuse of PD-Art photographs. ? Pelagic ( messages ) 13:09, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Thank you all. Now I know the essence of Bridgeman Art Library v. Corel Corp.. Transferred it to the commons. Mosesheron II (talk) 17:50, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Naming of Article: Given name, or Known name?[edit] Hi, I've created and have been contributing to the page Jim Swan. His given name is James S. Swan, however within the industry he worked in he was known as Jim Swan. The latter is also what he went by professionally on his LinkedIn, for example, and is what most articles refer to him as. Is it alright that the page is titled by his professional and known name rather than the one he was born with? (the page itself mentions both in the first sentence, this question is specifically regarding the titling of the article) Thanks for answering!Xland44 (talk) 20:24, 29 November 2021 (UTC) @Xland44, hello and welcome the Teahouse, please use the name he is predominantly know for(his most popular name) when deciding on an article title. See WP:COMMMONNAME. Celestina007 (talk) 20:26, 29 November 2021 (UTC) How can I add a logo to a page -had to remove old one and not sure how to replace with new one page Actian[edit] Vgoetz (talk) 20:32, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Hello, Vgoetz. Please read Wikipedia:Logos which should be helpful. Cullen328 (talk) 22:17, 29 November 2021 (UTC) @Vgoetz: when you say "had to" - are you being paid to change this somewhat over-promotional article? If so, you must declare your connection, and the guidelines for doing so can be found at WP:PAID. Thank you. Ah - I now see that you are probably employed by this company, and that other senior staff members have also been doing that in the past. Please tell them to stop, and to make an WP:EDITREQUEST on the article's talk page in future. You do not WP:OWN the contents on that page, or control it. Undeclared paid editors are not allowed to edit articles, and will be blocked. Nick Moyes (talk) 22:55, 29 November 2021 (UTC) I’m trying to get involved any advice on steps to take is appreciated[edit] 72.47.61.17 (talk) 20:36, 29 November 2021 (UTC) @72.47.61.17 Hello and welcome to the Teahouse please before anything, see WP:ADVENTURE, WP:TUTORIAL & WP:CTW. Celestina007 (talk) 20:56, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Page with many clear COI/Paid Editing violations- delete or revise?[edit] Hi everyone, During some browsing today, I came across the page TRUSTcollective. The editing history shows many edits by people with "trust collective" in the username, which implies to me paid editing, but there is no disclosure. Furthermore, many of the cited sources are articles by Adam Fine, who is listed as the company's founder. My question is, does this make the page worthy of nominating for deletion, or should I just flag it for coi/paid editing violations? I'm not sure how much of the page can be saved and whether or not it meets notability requirements when you remove the primary source article sources. If the best option is to clean up the page, can sources written by the company founder be used, or do they need to be removed? I would appreciate some advice or guidance on the issue. Apathyash (talk) 21:53, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Thank you for alerting people to this atrocity, Apathyash. It has already lost much of the puffery on display last month, but it still contains bullshit, such as the final sentence: TRUST created a multi-tiered communications strategy that raised global awareness of Walsh and her new venture. Let's continue taking out the trash. -- Hoary (talk) 23:19, 29 November 2021 (UTC) How do you remove citations?[edit] How do you remove citations? Trying to remove an inline citation and the visual editor won't let me. Also can't select specific citations from the list at bottom of page. Pernicious.Editor (talk) 22:30, 29 November 2021 (UTC) @Pernicious.Editor: Welcome to the Teahouse. When using the visual editor, you have to find the citation in the article text, select it, then press ? Backspace or Del. —Tenryuu ? ( ? • ? ) 23:09, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Yes - removing a reference from where it is in the text of the article removes it from the Reference section and renumbers all subsequent refs. If you intend to remove a ref, does that leave text unsupported by a ref? Do you intend to also remove the text? Why? Provide a good explanation for the Edit summary, or possible the next editor will revert your action. David notMD (talk) 01:44, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Architecture firm[edit] I could really use some assistance in how to correct my page so that it is accepted/more acceptable. The page represents an architecture firm that has been active in Wichita for more than 60 years. In creating the content, I used the existing Wikipedia pages of JE Dunn Construction (a construction company we’ve worked closely with), Proudfoot & Bird Architects (a long history of identifiable architecture throughout the mid-west), and DLR Group (another entity we’ve worked with) as a guide of what to do and what not to do. My first draft was fairly straightforward in content, following the styles of the pages listed above. JE Dunn lists the cities they are located in, with Wikipedia links to those cities. Proudfoot and Bird links to pages that don’t actually exist, which I obviously avoided doing. DLR’s page is extensively market driven, so I did not lean too far on copying their style. My second draft included more information and many more links and references, yet it was again refused. I can supply news articles spanning those 60+ years, and even though the articles don’t go on in depth about SJCF (more about the projects than about the architectural firm), there are 60+ years of coverage by external sources. I did link to the SJCF website as a courtesy external link, but I wanted to keep all marketing speak from the page, keeping with the Wikipedia guidelines. I also made sure to note my position as being paid to create the content on my talk page. I feel that I have done a thorough job on my page and have worked to follow the rules and guidelines. I am unsure how to proceed. Any and all assistance would be appreciated. WikiLDMR (talk) 22:42, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Courtesy link: Draft:SJCF Architecture Maproom (talk) 23:09, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Here is my recommendation (I don't expect you to follow it, inexperienced editors never do): Discard what you have written. The considerable time you must have spent typing it in is a sunk cost. Find several reliable independent published sources that discuss the firm in depth. Don't use anything written by the firm, or based on its press releases - they won't be independent. Don't use anything that just discusses the work it has done - it's the firm itself that we want to know about. Don't use anything based on an interview with a member of the firm - that won't be independent. Rewrite your draft from scratch, basing it entirely on what those sources say. Maproom (talk) 23:26, 29 November 2021 (UTC) @WikiLDMR As well as welcoming you to the Teahouse, could I add to what @Maproom has wisely told you by pointing you towards WP:NCORP - a key hurdle about notability that every article about a company needs to be able to attain? Thank you for declaring your WP:PAID involvement with this organisation. As an volunteer myself, I don't actually see why I should spend a lot of time helping someone who is being paid to edit an article to improve it. I tend to expect them to know the basics of editing Wikipedia already, or not to attempt the task until they've committed to mastering the basics. I don't mean to be rude to you, but that's just how I see it, sorry. Regards from the UK, Nick Moyes (talk) 00:12, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Your draft lists many projects which are the subjects of Wikipedia articles, but there is no information there that SJCF was the architect firm. Cut the list to just a few, with refs that present more than just a name-mention of the firm. David notMD (talk) 02:01, 30 November 2021 (UTC) WikiLDMR (talk) I quickly looked over your article draft, and my take on it is "less is more". You have convinced me that SJCF Architecture has designed buildings, but did not convince me that the firm is notable. Every building – even a tiny storage shed built by an amateur in his back yard – was "designed" by someone. Why should anyone be interested in reading about SJCF Architecture? I glanced through your long list of completed projects, and thought I'd look at some examples of the firm's work. I clicked on "Pizza Hut Headquarters" to see what the headquarters looked like, and was sent to the Pizza Hut Wikipedia article. No mention of the headquarters. "Unified School District 259" – which has 8 references after it – is about the school district, with nothing about what a building looks like. "Kansas Joint and Spine Institute" takes me to the Institute's website, which would be useful if I wanted a medical appointment. Get rid of all of those listings. Don't worry, all is not lost. Just start again, and write a small article about notable projects. The Wichita Public Library is on the National Historical Register. Tell me more, and show me a picture. Are there newspaper or magazine articles about that building? I want to know what others wrote about that library building, and want to see those references. Has anyone (other than SJCF Architecture) written about the design of the museum buildings? Has anyone with the firm won awards, or been praised for safety features included in public building designs? If so, tell me about it. Give a brief gist about lots of schools, parking garages, and medical facilities being designed, and give just a couple of good references about them, written by someone with no connection to the firm. And tell about notable buildings. National Historical Register buildings. Buildings that other architectural firms look at and say – "that's an important building". Tell me about important architects. Ones that are deemed important in the architectural world. Tell me why SJCF Architecture is notable. Don't overwhelm the poor volunteer review with a hundred references that don't tell anything important. (I read one article about a school district needing to save money by using old furniture.) Write 6 or 8 paragraphs about notable information. Give 6 or 8 references that really tell about the firm, and not just mention the name in passing. Less is more, when less is the good stuff. Gather up good research books and articles, and find those National Historical Register documents. Then write a good short draft article. Karenthewriter (talk) 02:23, 30 November 2021 (UTC) I got adopted for the Adopt-A-User program[edit] Hello, I got adopted by someone in the Adopt-A-User program. What do I do next? TappyTurtle13 (talk) 22:43, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Keep your fingers crossed. Your would-be adopter probably means well, but announced the adoption not only on your talk page (as expected) but also atop your user page -- which is odd, to put it mildly. Anyway, the matter is between them and you. Hoary (talk) 23:29, 29 November 2021 (UTC) @TappyTurtle13 Welcome to the Teahouse. Oh dear, I don't quite know how to break this to you. The offer was made to you a year ago by an editor who didn't even know how to sign his post, and who at that time had only ever made 120 edits. And you have only noticed their post a year later? That is not a recipe for success. Look, this is only my personal opinion, but the Adoption scheme is only really suited to help committed editors who are relatively new but already know the basics of editing, and now want to engage on an intensive, one-to-one level with an experience editor who is willing to put the time in to assist them. It is not suited either to brand new editors seeking help, nor is it a place for fairly inexperienced editors to pretend they know the ins and outs of Wikipedia and may well simply mislead others. Please don't take this the wrong way, but 'Adoption' involves a real commitment of time and effort from both parties, so for that reason I would never offer to adopt a complete newcomer such as yourself. That said, I and many others are happy to help you and others here at the Teahouse with individual questions you may have. So, if you need help or guidance, just ask here, and forget adoption until you have learned the basics and know you're really willing to commit wholesale to enhancing your editing skills. Regards, Nick Moyes (talk) 23:40, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Alright I got it, thank you! Sorry if I was kinda dumb for doing that... TappyTurtle13 (talk) 23:47, 29 November 2021 (UTC) @TappyTurtle13 Not your fault at all, my friend. But we're always here for you, when you need us. Cheers, Nick Moyes (talk) 23:52, 29 November 2021 (UTC) question about the notability of politicians[edit] Hello, friends! Once upon a time, I was a Wikipedia administrator. But it's been quite a long time, and I'm afraid I don't know much about what's going on these days. Question: What are Wikipedia's guidelines on the notability of local politicians? Is a local city elected official "notable" enough? Thanks! Fang Aili talk 23:48, 29 November 2021 (UTC) @Fang Aili: See WP:NPOL. Local politicians are notable if they have significant press coverage. RudolfRed (talk) 23:52, 29 November 2021 (UTC) (edit conflict) Hi @Fang Aili! As of current notability guidelines, being a local city elected official alone is not enough to be considered notable. This is per WP:POLITICIAN, which states that: Politicians and judges who have held international, national, or (for countries with federal or similar systems of government) state/province–wide office, or have been members of legislative bodies at those levels. This also applies to people who have been elected to such offices but have not yet assumed them. However, the policy also says " Major local political figures who have received significant press coverage are notable. So, ultimately, it depends. As most things do on Wikipedia XD ––FormalDude talk 23:53, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Thanks! Fang Aili talk 23:58, 29 November 2021 (UTC) Removal of Legal Issue[edit] I added a summary of a product's intellectual property theft (documented), and someone removed it. How can I stop that from happening again? 2600:1700:7261:5680:88E3:C510:E9A3:EEAC (talk) 00:45, 30 November 2021 (UTC) What kind of documents were these, how did you present this documentation, and what reason was given for removing the material? Simplest would be if you'd specify the article, and then people here could take a look. -- Hoary (talk) 00:58, 30 November 2021 (UTC) This seems to be about GPT-3; Kleinpecan seems to be the 'someone' mentioned. Wikignome Wintergreentalk 01:18, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Proper place is Talk page of GPT-3, with invitation to Kleinpecan. David notMD (talk) 02:07, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Anecdote[edit] I have an anecdote someone told me, over fifty years ago. I know of no backup source in which it is documented, and I'm wondering whether the anecdote will, in effect, die with me. I doubt that it's acceptable in the Wikipedia article that it pertains to, but is there some other, general repository for recording anecdotes? Realizing that if I simply added it to the article, it would be deleted, I wrote instead on the talk page. But it was removed from there. The reviewer kindly recommended the Teahouse, hence this post. And to give you an idea about what kind of anecdote this is: here's what I put on the Talk page: Garsdale station is a mile or two away from the village of Garsdale proper. Folklore has it that someone asked why it was so far. The answer as I remember it, in northern dialect, "Happen they built it near the railway." I don't know if the wording is exact, and have no source, but if someone can verify it, perhaps this anecdote can be included.2603:6010:4E42:500:30CF:D92B:C7CE:93E2 (talk) 00:44, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Hello, IP editor. Unpublished anecdotes are not permitted on Wikipedia because of the policy No original research. All Wikipedia content must summarize what reliable published sources say about the topic, and must be verifiable. Article talk pages are for discussing improvements to the article, not for sharing anecdotes. Cullen328 (talk) 01:18, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Looking at the map, it's pretty obvious that the railway had to be built to go around Turner Hill and continue following the valley.--Shantavira|feed me 08:45, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Seeking advice on improving a new article that has been flagged for deletion[edit] Hi, I've found helpful explanations on this forum relating to article deletion but I'm seeking more guidance. I recently started an article for a living musician that is well-known and well-respected in the folk scene in my state but whose career has primarily been more national - having collaborated or performed with many musicians (who have their own wikipedia articles) in multiple genres (folk, classical, one pop group). She's been a featured guest performer for ensembles, etc, and performs with her own musical group or solo. So I don't think the problem is that she isn't notable enough for wikipedia given the criteria I see at WP:singers, the problem is me. Apparently I don't have enough experience to write an acceptable article (I had assumed more experienced editors would contribute, but first I have to establish notability so the page isn't deleted). I did a bunch of basic wikipedia tutorials and read all the beginner and basic documentation awhile back so I know a lot of the basics for articles that aren't about people. Before starting this article I reviewed WP biographies of living persons to understand what is and isn't allowed. So I followed wikipedia's motto "be bold" (i.e. don't wait to make something perfect / complete) with the assumption that other editors would help build it or at least put the tags for citation needed, etc. However, the article itself was immediately tagged for deletion because that reviewer thought it was promo material for a non-notable musician. So I'm trying to improve the article with more cited sources but every time I try to add content to substantiate notability, the reviewer tells me I'm violating wikipedias soapbox/promo policy. I read WP policy that coverage in a newspaper can't be primarily a concert announcement, but has to be more substantial, so I found a long interview from a major newspaper that substantiated basic facts but I'm told interviews can't be used. Part of the problem I'm finding is that articles and venue websites or concert programs I find for sources often include the same factual / performance info that artists share on their own websites, making it hard to find independent sources to substantiate those facts. I look at other musicians articles on wikipedia of similar stature (or less) and it seems like they are using the same kinds of sources I'm turning to and citing. Since my searches of newspaper databases are yielding the most content, I'd love some more advice on what a good cite-worthy newspaper source should include. Or if you can refer me to acceptable WP articles on specific folk or classical musicians (notable but not celebrity status) that I can look at for models, that would help me a lot. My goal is to have a good enough article that it won't be deleted. From there the world can take over. Sorry this question is so long! thanks Colliedog (talk) 02:31, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Colliedog (talk) 02:31, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Moira Smiley? -- Hoary (talk) 03:17, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Page creation[edit] FYI ?– Added header. Wikignome Wintergreentalk 03:05, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Can I Create my page old Draft:Arya Shah? AryaHouse (talk) 02:59, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Do you mean "Can I recreate Draft:Arya Shah, which, with a different user name, I created earlier?"? If so, no you can't. If you mean something else, please explain. -- Hoary (talk) 03:14, 30 November 2021 (UTC) A Wikipedia page[edit] The page that says list of people who claim to be Jesus. I should be on it. My Twitter will verify. @imadude009. My Facebook link is on there. I'm claiming to be Kid Christ Reincarnated. I'm James now. That's a past life. Just look at the Twitter. 174.251.162.155 (talk) 04:00, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Not going to happen. At List of people claimed to be Jesus, everyone in the list has an existing Wikipedia article about them. You don't. Not saying you are not Jesus, just that you have to be notable to be counted among the many. David notMD (talk) 04:06, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Table help needed[edit] In Riboflavin, Dietary recommendtions section, the table on the right-hand side had content in a third column, since removed, but I cannot figure out how to remove the 'ghost' column that has no content in its cells. If anyone can see how to do it, do it, because explaining it to me so I can do it will take far longer. David notMD (talk) 04:03, 30 November 2021 (UTC) @David notMD: An extra column parameter was present, this has been fixed. MT TrainTalk 04:37, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Thank you. David notMD (talk) 11:46, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Is there a question[edit] 2600:8801:2987:7700:F041:D77E:4DA8:B96D (talk) 04:39, 30 November 2021 (UTC)6 3 Is there a question? David notMD (talk) 04:52, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Biased edits[edit] Recently, the NOlympics LA article has been created. So I added more info. Unfortinately, my edits were biased. As a result, I ceased making biased edits after an admin told me about this. However, another user just warned me just because I corrected the grammar in this article despite the fact I ceased making biased edits after I read that warning from another admin and despite the fact that it has a lot of edit errors. Is there is any advice? I tried to be neutral as I can. SpinnerLaserzthe2nd (talk) 04:43, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Hello, SpinnerLaserzthe2nd, Welcome to the Teahouse. It would help if you provided links to the edits that were considered "biased". I'll refrain from offering my opinion as I've already share it with you. Liz Read! Talk! 04:53, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Okay, thank you very much! SpinnerLaserzthe2nd (talk) 04:54, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Question[edit] Since I use the mobile version of wikipedia, I had one question. How to move or create a page in the mobile version? Gizte (talk) 04:59, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Hi Gizte. Perhaps the information you're looking for can be found in WP:MOBILE. Did you know that there's a "Desktop" link at the the bottom of mobile Wikipedia pages that allows you to switch from the mobile version to the desktop version? For the most part, you can use this to edit Wikipedia pretty much the same way as if you weren't editing from a mobile device. -- Marchjuly (talk) 05:05, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Hi, Gizte, go to Special:MobileOptions and turn on "Advanced mode" (if it's not already on). That will add a "?" button to the top toolbar. Tap that and the last item in the drop-down should be "Move". ? Pelagic ( messages ) 13:30, 30 November 2021 (UTC) John Gatins wiki page -[edit] I am John Gatins and I am curious about why someone continues to post the same incorrect information about prior substance abuse and sobriety date and involvement in alcoholics anonymous - I think the source that is referenced is an article in the Los Angeles times - none of this information is stated in that article - can someone help me edit or remove this misinformation? - thanks for any help - john Lalalabusyx46 (talk) 07:16, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Hello, Lalalabusyx46. If you believe that the current version of the article does not correctly summarize the Los Angeles Times article about addiction, then post an edit request on Talk: John Gatins. If you think that the LAT content is wrong, take it up with the LAT. If they retract and publish a correction, then the Wikipedia article can also be corrected at that time. We summarizing what published, reliable sources say. Cullen328 (talk) 08:01, 30 November 2021 (UTC) While most of that section does seem to correctly summarize the LAT article, I removed the exact sobriety date because (1) it is not stated exactly in-source and (2) I would err on the side of privacy here. The rest is mentioned in the LAT and IMO represented well in the Wikipedia article (Lalalabusyx46, if you disagree, please point out the exact sentence that you object to, and if possible suggest a replacement). The LAT is an interview, but one has no real reason to think that the interviewed person lied or misremembered stuff here. TigraanClick here for my talk page ("private" contact) 12:39, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Cullen and Tigraan thank you so much for your responses - I am trying to learn about Wiki - I know absolutely nothing about how it works - for example - why do I even have a wiki page? who wrote it? why? lol - and I reread the LAT article which I had only read once 9 years ago and laughed as I was reminded of that piece and a few others that ran - all of which had shades of truth to them - but being a bit overwhelmed with the picking through my personal life that was going on I just kept moving - never stopping to point out inaccuracies or bends on truths - Tigraan, I really appreciate you saying to err on the side of privacy with regards to a date not specifically stated in the article - and as it is my personal life and I have no desire or agency by which I could put an update to any facts or relationships to organizations cited from the article - I'm not sure what there is to do - If you asked me what I'd prefer - it is privacy - I have no twitter or facebook - I don't have social media profiles - my personal opinion about any news outlet like the LAT associating anyone with AA is that it is dangerous both for that individual and AA itself - the second A being Anonymous - any association I might have or have had with AA is irrelevant and unprovable as I don't think those meetings take minutes or roll call - I know that my opinions don't matter and I appreciate wiki editors trying to base articles on fact - I see that wiki graded that LAT article a C - which makes it a somewhat shaky reference - I truly appreciate you both responding to my questions - and I really appreciate the nod towards privacy - and any further nods in that direction would be greatly appreciated - I'd love the personal life section to go away - I also didn't really grow up near saratoga racetrack - it was 3 hours from my house - I went a few times in my life - I will reread the wiki page and see if there is anything I can add to improve the facts - sorry to go long here - cheers - have a great day, gents ---- Lalalabusyx46 To answer one of your questions, the article was created by User:Bobamnertiopsis back in 2013, and edited by many people since then. History of edits seen by clicking on View history, top menu. Given that it is about you (accepting that you are who you say you are), your path for changes is to create a New section on the Talk page of the article, and there post the specific changes you want, as in delete _____ and add _____, including references for the latter. All content must be verified by refs. Wikipedia does respect personal privacy, so you can also post requests that certain information by removed, especially if not germane to whatever makes you notable. David notMD (talk) 15:36, 30 November 2021 (UTC)David notMD - i appreciate your help - jg---- Lalalabusyx46 I apologize as I've been removing your edits thinking that it was vandalism. If this is a case of violation of privacy through BLP I think the smart move here is to delete and see if there's further info regarding the wikipedia policies. CaffeinAddict (talk) 15:45, 30 November 2021 (UTC) CaffeinAddict - I truly appreciate you deleting that portion - I can't imagine that anyone will feel so inclined as to try to restore some version of that content - but if someone does I can take the steps you suggest to further claim this article as you call it about me - I may very well try to read through the history of the article and its editors to get a sense of why it was created - all to say that I appreciate you - be well - jg ---- Sources[edit] From where can I seek help on finding sources for my article. I want someone to help me find sources on one of my articles. Where should I post my request? Itcouldbepossible (talk) 07:49, 30 November 2021 (UTC) @Itcouldbepossible, you can try Wikiprojects related to the topic of your article. For example, if you're writing about a chemical, try Wikipedia talk:WikiProject Chemistry. Wikipedia:Reference desk and WP:RX may be of interest. Gråbergs Gråa Sång (talk) 09:44, 30 November 2021 (UTC) @Gråbergs Gråa Sång Thanks for the source. Itcouldbepossible (talk) 11:45, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Can I use Reddit as a source?[edit] I wanted to add this source (https://www.reddit.com/r/MeansTV/comments/dmgmki/no_olympics_in_la_no_olympics_in_tokyo_no/) to the NOlympics LA article. I am not sure if its okay or not. Also, in terms of biased edits, do you think the current revision is better than this edit or do you think it needs editing? SpinnerLaserzthe2nd (talk) 09:59, 30 November 2021 (UTC) hi SpinnerLaserzthe2nd! to answer your first question, you generally should avoid using reddit as a source due to being a self-published source. happy editing! melecie t - 10:06, 30 November 2021 (UTC) What about the second one? Do you think the links are biased. SpinnerLaserzthe2nd (talk) 10:12, 30 November 2021 (UTC) @SpinnerLaserzthe2nd, hello and welcome to the Teahouse, To expound on what has already been said to you, Reddit is a forum and you may not use a forum as a reliable source nor can you use a self published or user generated materials as a reliable source. The fundamentals of identifying a reliable source which you need to know is, a reliable source, has to have a reputation for fact checking and a presence of editorial oversight, this is what you need to know primarily. Sourcing is an “art” thus it is very tricky and a little bit difficult to master but not impossible. You did well by coming here for verification, please do not hesitate to ask more questions when you are unsure about a source. Celestina007 (talk) 18:25, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Sources[edit] One of the policies in Wikipedia is that all materials must have a source but how to sure or how to know if the URL or link provided for a source/reference are safe? Thanks in advance. —It'sCtrlwiki • talk • 12:28, 30 November 2021 (UTC) You'll find advice at WP:Verifiability and at WP:Reliable sources, together with various links from those pages. --David Biddulph (talk) 12:33, 30 November 2021 (UTC) I don't know what you mean in this context by "safe", Ctrlwiki. Do you mean "free of spyware"? Do you mean reliable? Or do you mean something else? -- Hoary (talk) 12:35, 30 November 2021 (UTC) As a reviewer, I need to verify if the sources provided by the user in an article is reliable, except for this one, I also need to verify if the information added by the user is accurate as the provided source, and one way to do this is to click the link for verification, but what if the provided link by anonymous user is not safe or containing unsafe data, I mean, every article in Wikipedia contains a lot of different external links, and how to know if they are safe and they can not damage my device or account.—It'sCtrlwiki • talk • 13:10, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Ultimately, I don't think that you can fully trust any external link: your own browser plus virus-detector are the ultimate backups. Many known spam websites are blocked by Wikipedia software so that they can't be added in the first place but bad links do get through and can be reported at WP:WPSPAM. I'd be more cautious about reviewing drafts or edits created by IP users but over the years I've been using Wikipedia I've never personally hit a damaging link. Ultimately we have to assume good faith Mike Turnbull (talk) 15:28, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Repertorium Eruditorum Totius Europae: citation spam or not[edit] I would like an opinion as to whether edits such as the following constitute citation spam or not: Leiden_University revision of 08:37, 30 November 2021 Also, I solicit opinions about the fact that such edits (this is one of a couple of dozen such edits) are marked as "minor edits". (I'd like the opinion to be "if somebody's improperly/flagrantly marking edits as minor, you are free to flagrantly revert such edits.) Fabrickator (talk) 12:54, 30 November 2021 (UTC) To answer the second part of your question, I assume that the editor may not have been aware of the guidance at Help:Minor edit, so I have given them the appropriate notice. In these circumstances I wouldn't necessarily regard the marking as a minor edit as grounds for reverting the edit. --David Biddulph (talk) 13:02, 30 November 2021 (UTC) To answer the first part of your question I did consider these edits to be citation spam when the same editor was earlier trying to edit war similar content into University of Bologna. Jonathan A Jones (talk) 14:09, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Copyright image[edit] Hello, if I edit a copyrighted image in any app, for example, if I add some filters to it, will it be non-copyrighted? Thank you. Richard Michael William (talk) 13:12, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Nope. When creating a Derivative work, Richard, you need permission/license from the original copyright holders. ? Pelagic ( messages ) 13:44, 30 November 2021 (UTC) How do I get my contributions published?[edit] Hi, I recently expanded the section on the controversies over the Anthropocene in the Anthropocene wikipedia page; however, my edits have not yet been published. What process should I go through for my edits to publish? Thank you! Nalyd24 (talk) 14:46, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Hi Nalyd24 according to Special:Contributions/Nalyd24 you have not yet edited the Anthropocene article. You have created a page in your userspace User:Nalyd24/Anthropocene where you have written several paragraphs. You need to copy your draft text to an appropriate place or places in the Anthropocene article. In Wikipedia articles we generally try to avoid having a specific "Controversy" section unless there is really a major controversy about the topic. Best practice is to place discussion about divergent opinions and disputes within relevant sections of the article. Roger (Dodger67) (talk) 15:05, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Template not working.. for some reason[edit] Hello! I attempted to add the template {{Infobox Wikipedia user}} to my userpage but I appear to have done something wrong as it's not displaying correctly. Anyone know what I'm doing wrong? ? Blaze The WolfTalkBlaze Wolf#6545 15:42, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Hi Blaze The Wolf - you were missing the vertical bars ( | ) at the beginning of each line - I think I've fixed it, if not, just revert my edit - best wishes - Arjayay (talk) 15:49, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Yep that worked. I think I had gone too far when I was removing the bars that encased my userboxes on specific lines (I pressed replace all forgetting some other templates used them). I'm working on fixing it right now. ? Blaze The WolfTalkBlaze Wolf#6545 15:51, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Recording anecdotes[edit] I have an anecdote someone told me, over fifty years ago. I know of no backup source in which it is documented, and I'm wondering whether the anecdote will, in effect, die with me. I doubt that it's acceptable in the Wikipedia article that it pertains to, but is there some other, general repository for recording anecdotes? Realizing that if I simply added it to the article, it would be deleted, I wrote instead on the talk page. But it was removed from there. The reviewer kindly recommended the Teahouse, hence this post. And to give you an idea about what kind of anecdote this is: here's what I put on the Talk page: Garsdale station is a mile or two away from the village of Garsdale proper. Folklore has it that someone asked why it was so far. The answer as I remember it, in northern dialect, "Happen they built it near the railway." I don't know if the wording is exact, and have no source, but if someone can verify it, perhaps this anecdote can be included.2603:6010:4E42:500:3869:D33C:BCBC:A7CA (talk) 16:44, 30 November 2021 (UTC) 2603:6010:4E42:500:3869:D33C:BCBC:A7CA (talk) 16:44, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Hello and welcome to the Teahouse. Wikipedia summarizes what published independent reliable sources state about a topic, and can be verified. Personal recollections in and of themselves do not usually fall in that category. If this recollection is published in an independent reliable source, that might work, but you posting your personal recollection is not sufficient, unfortunately. 331dot (talk) 16:54, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Thanks – and yes, I know that it's not appropriate for the article itself, and I agree with that policy. What my question has to do with is whether a repository exists, other than the main encyclopedia, for recording anecdotes.2603:6010:4E42:500:3869:D33C:BCBC:A7CA (talk) 17:02, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Not on WP. You may want to look into something like Everipedia, more at List of online encyclopedias. Gråbergs Gråa Sång (talk) 17:25, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Also, if your anecdote is ever published in a local book about the station, or in a local newspaper article reminiscing about its history, then you may be able to get it inserted into the WP article sourced to the book or newspaper (the logic is that if one of these has chosen to publish the anecdote, then someone independent of you has agreed that it is interesting, relevant, and maybe even true!). It's not a guarantee that it'd be accepted, but it's a big step in the right direction, and of course it will also preserve the anecdote for posterity in whatever book or newspaper does the deed. Good luck, I too love such anecdotes. Elemimele (talk) 21:05, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Two people with the same name[edit] Hello - I would like to create a page for a person who has the same name as someone already listed on Wiki. One is an actor and is not on Wiki. The other is a hockey player by the same name. When you click the actor's name, it automatically goes to the hockey players page. Griff3161 (talk) 16:58, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Hi Griff3161! I recently encountered this problem when making the article Francis Bourgeois (trainspotter), my suggestion would be to name the page "(person's name) (actor)", then monitor the pageviews of both pages for a while, and then the actor's page could be renamed and made the primary topic, or the person's name (without the "actor") could be turned into a disambiguation page if that makes sense? wizzito | say hello! 17:08, 30 November 2021 (UTC) It looks like you're trying to create an article about yourself. Can you please read this page? Thanks! wizzito | say hello! 17:12, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Griff3161 Wikipedia articles and IMBd cannot be used as references for Wikipedia articles. David notMD (talk) 20:36, 30 November 2021 (UTC) It is about me. I'm not the hockey player and wanted to distinguish between he and I. If you select my name in the credits that are listed on this site, it goes to the hockey player. I just wanted to separate us. — Preceding unsigned comment added by Griff3161 (talk • contribs) 20:54, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Unless you can find references other than Wikipedia articles and IMBd, your attempt to turn User:Griff3161/sandbox into an article about yourself will fail. Also, see WP:AUTO. David notMD (talk) 21:19, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Sandbox to review to live?[edit] FYI ?– Added header. Wikignome Wintergreentalk 17:40, 30 November 2021 (UTC) I've forgotten how to submit a new article and can't fathom for some reason. It seems to be in a sandbox https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frank_E._Taylor Am feeling a bit dim, apologies. Likeybikey (talk) 17:34, 30 November 2021 (UTC) @Likeybikey: - it's in main space. Reference [32] needs fixing and the article might benefit from the addition of an infobox - {{Infobox person}}. Mjroots (talk) 18:10, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Wikignome Wintergreen Thanks so much! Trying to fix, if you have time to advise, this link is good https://www.pulitzer.org/winners/karl-shapiro so where have I gone wrong? 1944 Karl Shapiro - "V Letters"[1] Another editor has changed the troublesome ref 32 to <ref>{{Cite web|url=https://www.pulitzer.org/winners/karl-shapiro|title=V-Letter and Other Poems, by Karl Shapiro (Reynal)|website=www.pulitzer.org|access-date=2021-11-30|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20211130185633/https://www.pulitzer.org/winners/karl-shapiro|archive-date=2021-11-30|url-status=live}}</ref>, which renders as [2] References ^ https://www.pulitzer.org/winners/karl-shapiro. Missing or empty |title= (help)|website=www.pulitzer.org|access-date=2021-11-30|archive-date=2021-09-27|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20210927174214/https://www.pulitzer.org/winners/%7B%7Bglobal.pageCanocialUrl%7D%7D%7Curl-status=live}} ^ "V-Letter and Other Poems, by Karl Shapiro (Reynal)". www.pulitzer.org. Archived from the original on 2021-11-30. Retrieved 2021-11-30. Shortcuts[edit] Hi, my username is Rzzor and I'm a new user. Can someone tell me some shortcuts like using the two apostrophes to italicize? Thanks. (Also, what's a tilde?) Edit: Thank you Blaze and Rose for helping me. I'll probably use this information later writing articles. Rzzor (talk) 18:53, 30 November 2021 (UTC) @Rzzor, welcome! See WP:CHEATSHEET or the longer WP:TUTORIAL. For tilde, see WP:SIGN (or tilde). Gråbergs Gråa Sång (talk) 19:14, 30 November 2021 (UTC) A tilde is this character: ~. I would probably describe it as a wavy dash. ? Blaze The WolfTalkBlaze Wolf#6545 19:24, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Rzzor, Welcome to Wikipedia! I left a little welcome message with some links you might be interested in as you start your journey here. I see you already found your Sandbox. That's the best place to practice so I'm happy you discovered or were directed there. You can, as always, ask any questions here on the Teahouse and the very capable hosts and watchers will assist. I hope you enjoy your time here and good luck with the editing! --ARoseWolf 19:41, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Wikipedia Image Google Search Box[edit] Hi, I recently changed an image for a search entry on the Wiki page but now it's not showing up in the Google search box. It's just text in the Google search box for this entry. Any help would be appreciated! 69.131.216.32 (talk) 19:53, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Wikipedia has no control over what Google does with Wikipedia content; it sometimes takes time for things to update. 331dot (talk) 19:57, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Thanks very much! A question about paid editors[edit] I recently found a paid editor who hadn't made the required disclosure. In their talk page, I told them to make the disclosure, which they did (although they only did so on their talk page, and not on their user page as is required by policy). Before I did this, their paid editing had been ongoing for several years. Should I have reported this user on the noticeboard? --Wartops (talk) 20:00, 30 November 2021 (UTC) I'm not an admin, but I think that you should definitely report them now. Anonymous from Stack Overflow (talk) 20:13, 30 November 2021 (UTC) The editor in question has edited two articles (related). You have told the editor to declare paid, which was done on Talk page, and you then advised today to more to User page. A fair guess it will be done. You also tagged the two articles as products of paid editing. If the paid notice is moved to User page I would consider your effort reaching the right result, and done. David notMD (talk) 20:43, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Wartops, hello and welcome to the Teahouse, if I am reading this correctly, are you implying they have been engaging in undeclared paid editing for years? Do you have cogent proof? If yes, then please WP:UPE enables you to go to WP:AN/I, if you have hard evidence that may contain private material then please you may want to send an e-mail to ArbCom. Celestina007 (talk) 23:14, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Feedback[edit] Will someone please give me feedback on my edits? --InternetScavenger89 20:09, 30 November 2021 (UTC) I'm not going to evaluate your edits as I don't believe that's extremely constructive. What I will do is say that you are appreciated and I encourage you to soak up as much wisdom from longtime editors as possible. Ask for and take to heart as much advice as you can. Follow links and study policy, guidelines and even essays (where applicable). Read, read, read! Exploring the encyclopedia and testing things on your sandbox isn't a bad idea either. We have some amazing editors here that you can learn so much from and I think you probably have thoughts you can offer that will be constructive for the encyclopedia. Be Bold but be conscious. --ARoseWolf 20:24, 30 November 2021 (UTC) @InternetScavenger89: (pinging). ? Blaze The WolfTalkBlaze Wolf#6545 20:25, 30 November 2021 (UTC) @Blaze The Wolf: Last questions, How do you archive talk page discussions? --InternetScavenger89 20:27, 30 November 2021 (UTC) @InternetScavenger89: There are 2 (Technically 3 but 2 of them are similar) way of doing so, manually and via a bot. H:ARC provides information on how to do so. ? Blaze The WolfTalkBlaze Wolf#6545 20:29, 30 November 2021 (UTC) How do you give an administrator a barnstar if they have extended confirmed protection. — Preceding unsigned comment added by InternetScavenger89 (talk • contribs) 21:40, 30 November 2021 (UTC) You should add that to the talk page, not try and edit their user page. ScottishFinnishRadish (talk) 21:50, 30 November 2021 (UTC) https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Draft:Laurence_Myers[edit] I am writing an article but it has been declined for publication about three times. I do think the subject is qualified as there are books and other publications that write about his inventions so I am wondering if the way the article is written, is the problem.. I have since the last decline, changed some things, so I think it might be better but appreciate any help. All advice is welcome. Thanks! Vedlagt (talk) 20:14, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Declined four times. ALL of the stuff about patents is about the inventions, therefore NONE of it contributes to establishing HIS notability. Ditto the content about his family. Unless some of the other refs are about him, at length, no hope. David notMD (talk) 20:59, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Alexandria Times on Wiki needs the name of its Founder, which is me :-][edit] Courtesy link: Alexandria Times Why does "Alexandria Times" on wiki not include the name of its Founding Editor and Publisher, John Arundel? I sold the paper to Denise Dunbar in 2009 but there is no mention as to who founded the paper. I live in Alexandria, VA. with my children, and this is my legacy. This is deeply hurtful to me. Please change. Thank you, John Arundel Here are citations: https://books.google.com/books?id=dFcbAQAAMAAJ&pg=RA1-PA459&lpg=RA1-PA459&dq=john+arundel+who+founded+the+Alexandria+Times&source=bl&ots=12WNRi6HuK&sig=ACfU3U2eRyquMd9Apvyk8_jTZV9J0cjYwA&hl=en&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwij3MjR68D0AhWeoHIEHfG1DaEQ6AF6BAgWEAM#v=onepage&q=john%20arundel%20who%20founded%20the%20Alexandria%20Times&f=false https://www.linkedin.com/in/joarundel/ Jonarunwiki (talk) 20:15, 30 November 2021 (UTC) @Jonarunwiki: Hello Jon and thank you for coming here first before adding it. Since you say you are the founder I suggest you take a look at WP:COI and WP:PAID. ? Blaze The WolfTalkBlaze Wolf#6545 20:24, 30 November 2021 (UTC) (edit conflict) Hi @Jonarunwiki, the article has been updated to reflect this, in the infobox and halfway down the lead paragraph, citing the source you provided. I hope this helps :) — Berrely • Talk?Contribs 20:24, 30 November 2021 (UTC) @Jonarunwiki:, Hi, for the future, the correct thing to do isn't to edit the article yourself, it's to request on the talk-page associated with the article the changes you'd like made. This is because you have a conflict of interest (more information at WP:COI). Also, the information should ideally have a reliable secondary and independent source. The linkedin reference won't do, and the trademark register reference is a bit iffy, being very much a primary source. It would be really nice if you can find an article written by someone else, perhaps a different newspaper, welcoming your new newspaper on the journalistic scene? Thanks for raising the issue here. Elemimele (talk) 20:40, 30 November 2021 (UTC) Getting more communities involved in overseeing a page[edit] Getting more communities involved in overseeing a page Hello, I'm just wondering if there's an established way (read: polite) of getting more communities involved in actively checking in on an article. The article on archaeoacoustics (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Archaeoacoustics) is currently associated with the Archaeology group, but since it's a hybrid discipline, I'd like to get it associated with the Physics/Acoustics group as well - basically, it's a sort of inactive page (before me, hadn't been edited in almost a year, and the talk page has been inactive for even longer) that I'd like to start filling it out more, but would like to make sure that more established editors with an interest in the subject matter can oversee and ensure I'm not making a mess of it. Is there a polite way to start the association of the topic with the community? SuddenBowsprit (talk) 23:27, 30 November 2021 (UTC) At the top of the article's talk page, after the existing WikiProject, you could add something like {{WikiProject Physics|class=start|importance=mid|acoustics=yes|fluid-dynamics=yes}}, adjusting the class & importance according to the project's definitions. --David Biddulph (talk) 00:35, 1 December 2021 (UTC) Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:Teahouse&oldid=1058024421" Categories: Wikipedia Teahouse Wikipedia help forums Hidden categories: CS1 errors: missing title CS1 errors: bare URL Noindexed pages Wikipedia move-protected project pages Project pages with short description Non-talk pages that are automatically signed Pages that should not be manually archived Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Project page Talk Variants expanded collapsed Views Read Edit View history More expanded collapsed Search Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version Languages ??????? ????? ?eština Dansk Deutsch Français ?????? Bahasa Indonesia Magyar ?????? ????? ???? Norsk bokmål ????? ???? Polski Português ??????? ????????? ???? ?????? / srpski Svenska ????? ???? ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 1 December 2021, at 00:42 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement