Wikinews, the free news source
Wikinews, the free news source Main Page From Wikinews, the free news source you can write! Jump to navigation Jump to search Welcome to Wikinews The free news source you can write! Tuesday, November 30, 2021, 2012 (UTC) Copy us • Newsroom • Mission • Report breaking news • Donate Audio Wikinews • Social media • Chat • Best of Wikinews New Zealand raises interest rates in second straight month to 0.75% The Reserve Bank of New Zealand (RBNZ) raised interest rates by 25 basis points to 0.75% during its last policy meeting of the year yesterday, after the rate of consumer price inflation was recorded at 4.9% in the third quarter, the highest since December 2007. [ML] [ ± ] - Image credit - Read more... Latest news ± New Zealand raises interest rates in second straight month to 0.75% Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi promises repeal of three farm laws Merritt, British Columbia evacuated amid massive storm Glasgow Climate Pact deal struck; nations to reduce coal usage Former Japanese princess Mako Komuro moves to New York with commoner husband Winter, dolphin with prosthetic tail, dies at 16 Grand jury indicts former White House advisor Steve Bannon for contempt of Congress 33-year old charged with murder of Dalibor Pantic Wikinews interviews RSL Australia for Remembrance Day 2021 Australian Fair Work Commission rules that farm workers on piece rate entitled to minimum wage Write-in candidate leads in Buffalo, New York mayor election Northern Marianas governor closes schools for ten days after three COVID-19 cases detected North Korea launches "early-stage" hypersonic missile Rosemary Cousin, Greens candidate in South Gippsland, Australia, speaks to Wikinews about democracy, transport, forests and other local issues » Older news Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi promises repeal of three farm laws In an address to the nation on Friday, Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi pledged to repeal three controversial farm laws, explaining "we have decided to repeal all three farm laws and will start the constitutional process to repeal all the three laws in the upcoming parliament sessions that starts at the end of this month". [ ± ] - Image credit - Read more... Glasgow Climate Pact deal struck; nations to reduce coal usage The 2021 United Nations Climate Change Conference (often abbreviated to COP26) has concluded with the signing of the Glasgow Climate Pact. [ ± ] - Image credit - Read more... Former Japanese princess Mako Komuro moves to New York with commoner husband Mako Komuro and her husband, Kei Komuro, travelled to New York yesterday to start a new life together outside of the Japanese Royal Family. [ ± ] - Image credit - Read more... Merritt, British Columbia evacuated amid massive storm The city of Merritt in the Canadian province of British Columbia was placed under an evacuation order on Monday due to rapid flooding. [ ± ] - Image credit - Read more... Africa • Asia • South / Central / North America • Europe • Middle East • Oceania • Antarctica Crime and law • Culture and entertainment • Disasters and accidents • Economy and business • Education • Environment Health • Obituaries • Politics and conflicts • Science and technology • Sports • Wackynews • Weather Write an article!± Wikinews needs you! We want to create a diverse community around the globe who collaborate to report on a wide variety of current news events. Please read the guide or how-to before starting. You might want to check recently created articles to see if your story has already been reported upon. Never edited a wiki before? See our editing help page. Recent interviews ± Wikinews interviews RSL Australia for Remembrance Day 2021 Rosemary Cousin, Greens candidate in South Gippsland, Australia, speaks to Wikinews about democracy, transport, forests and other local issues Australia: Wikinews interviews Les Harmer, South Gippsland local election candidate Australia: Wikinews interviews David Liebelt, South Gippsland local election candidate » More Original reporting± First-hand journalism by our reporters Wikinews interviews RSL Australia for Remembrance Day 2021 Rosemary Cousin, Greens candidate in South Gippsland, Australia, speaks to Wikinews about democracy, transport, forests and other local issues Australia: Wikinews interviews Les Harmer, South Gippsland local election candidate Australia: Wikinews interviews David Liebelt, South Gippsland local election candidate » More A Wikimedia project About Wikinews± We are a group of volunteers whose mission is to present reliable, unbiased and relevant news. All our content is released under a free license. By making our content perpetually available for free redistribution and use, we hope to contribute to a global digital commons. Wikinews stories are written from a neutral point of view to ensure fair and unbiased reporting. Wikinews's best work ± In most recently promoted order. 'Earth-based life can survive in hydrogen-rich atmospheres': MIT professor Dr Seager tells Wikinews about her research on organisms thriving in oxygen-less environment Neanderthals 'knew what they were doing': Archæologist Dr Naomi Martisius discusses her findings about Neanderthals' behaviour with Wikinews "Avast ye scurvy file sharers!": Interview with Swedish Pirate Party leader Rickard Falkvinge Iranian International Master Dorsa Derakhshani discusses her chess career with Wikinews Wikinews investigates disappearance of Indonesian cargo ship Namse Bangdzod » More Around Wikinews± Introduction to Wikinews Policies and guidelines How to write a good article Wikinews discussion forums Request an interview Contact us Wikinews in other languages Shqip (Albanian) · ??????? (Arabic) · ????????? (Bulgarian) · Bosanski jezik (Bosnian) · Català (Catalan) · ?? (Chinese) · ?esky (Czech) · Nederlands (Dutch) · Deutsch (German) · ???????? (Greek) · Esperanto · Suomi (Finnish) · Français (French) · ????? (Hebrew) · Italiano (Italian) · ??? (Japanese) · ??? (Korean) · Limburgs (Limburgish) · Norsk (Norwegian) · ????? (Persian) · Polski (Polish) · Português (Portuguese) · Român? (Romanian) · ??????? (Russian) · ?????? / Srpski (Serbian) · Español (Spanish) · ???? (Sindhi) · Svenska (Swedish) · ??? (Thai) · Türkçe (Turkish) · ?????????? (Ukrainian) · ????? (Tamil) – Start a new edition Sister projects Wikinews is run by the non-profit Wikimedia Foundation, which operates several other multilingual and free-content projects. Wikipedia – Encyclopedia MediaWiki – Wiki software development Meta-Wiki – Coordination Commons – Media repository Wikibooks – Textbooks Wikidata – Knowledge base Wikiquote – Quotations Wikisource – Sources Wikispecies – Species Wikiversity – Learning resources Wikivoyage – Travel guide Wiktionary – Dictionary » More Wikinews stories Retrieved from "https://en.wikinews.org/w/index.php?title=Main_Page&oldid=4568285" Category: Portal Hidden categories: Pages using DynamicPageList No publish Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Main page Collaboration Variants expanded collapsed Views Read View source View history More expanded collapsed Search Navigation Main page Newsroom Recent changes Random article Archives Free use media upload Wikinews Help Pillars of writing Write an article Water cooler Style guide Live chat Donate Contact us Regions Africa Antarctica Asia Central America Europe Middle East North America Oceania South America Tools What links here Related changes Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons MediaWiki Meta-Wiki Multilingual Wikisource Wikispecies Wikibooks Wikidata Wikimania Wikipedia Wikiquote Wikisource Wikiversity Wikivoyage Wiktionary In other languages ??????? ????????? Bosanski Català ?eština Deutsch ???????? Esperanto Español ????? Suomi Français ????? Magyar Italiano ??? ??? Limburgs Nederlands Norsk Polski Português Român? ??????? ???? Shqip ?????? / srpski Svenska ????? ??? Türkçe ?????????? ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 5 June 2020, at 08:22. All text created after September 25, 2005 available under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution 2.5 License, unless otherwise specified. Contributions must be attributed to Wikinews; see Terms of use for details. Copyright on images may vary, please check individual image pages prior to duplication. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikinews®, and the Wikinews logo are registered trademarks of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. Wikinews is not responsible for the content of external sites. Privacy policy About Wikinews Disclaimers Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement