Wikisource, the free library
Wikisource, the free library Main Page From Wikisource Jump to navigation Jump to search Welcome to Wikisource, the free library that anyone can improve. 532,685 texts in English Site index Community portal News Sandbox Wikisource – The Free Library – is a Wikimedia Foundation project to create a growing free content library of source texts, as well as translations of source texts in any language. November’s featured text Grab a download! The Vampyre (1819) is a short work of prose fiction written in 1816 by John William Polidori as part of a contest between Polidori, Mary Shelley, Lord Byron, and Percy Shelley. Mary Shelley's Frankenstein resulted from the same contest. Polidori's story is often viewed as the progenitor of the romantic vampire genre of fantasy fiction. The Vampyre was first published on 1 April 1819 by Henry Colburn in the New Monthly Magazine with the false attribution "A Tale by Lord Byron". The story was an immediate popular success, partly because of the Byron attribution and partly because it exploited the gothic horror predilections of the public. Polidori transformed the vampire from a character in folklore into the form that is recognized today—an aristocratic fiend who preys among high society. IT happened that in the midst of the dissipations attendant upon a London winter, there appeared at the various parties of the leaders of the ton a nobleman, more remarkable for his singularities, than his rank. He gazed upon the mirth around him, as if he could not participate therein. Apparently, the light laughter of the fair only attracted his attention, that he might by a look quell it, and throw fear into those breasts where thoughtlessness reigned. Those who felt this sensation of awe, could not explain whence it arose: some attributed it to the dead grey eye, which, fixing upon the object's face, did not seem to penetrate, and at one glance to pierce through to the inward workings of the heart; but fell upon the cheek with a leaden ray that weighed upon the skin it could not pass. (Read on...) or see all featured texts. Current collaborations The Monthly Challenge for November contains 56 works. This month: Pages processed: 6079 (303.9% of target) Avg. pages/day: 203 Yesterday: 98 Last month: Pages processed: 3672 (183.6% of target) Avg. pages/day: 118 The current Proofread of the Month is The Origin of the Bengali Script (1919) by Rakhaldas Bandyopadhyay. Recent collaborations: Hoffmann's Strange Stories, Galileo Galilei and the Roman Curia, Shinto: the Way of the Gods, Manhattan Transfer, The Island of Madagasgar, Negro Poets and Their Poems, The Torrent and the Night Before, Women of the West, Gentlemen Prefer Blondes, Appeal to the Wealthy of the Land New texts Fraud Act 2006 (2006) by Parliament of the United Kingdom The Trojan Women of Euripides (1905) by Euripides, translated by George Gilbert Aimé Murray Hong Kong Reunification Ordinance (1997) by Provisional Legislative Council of Hong Kong Essays on the Principles of Human Action (1835) by William Hazlitt (1778-1830) The Case of Bohemia (1917) by Lewis Bernstein Namier Land Titles Ordinance (2004) by Legislative Council of Hong Kong Walter Scott (1923) by Benedetto Croce A partial listing of some newly-added texts (Add to this list) See other works added this year Highlights Poetry from ancient and romantic to modern, in love and war Texts, laws, constitutions of many countries Documents from US history, including Revolution and Civil War US law: Supreme Court decisions, government documents, presidential addresses General literature: modern novels and short stories, horror stories, children’s literature, science fiction, drama Original, encyclopedic, popular articles on relativity, physics, biology, and other sciences Explore Wikisource Authors – Index By era By genre By nationality By type Works – Index By era By genre By subject By type Subject index Sister Projects Wikisource is hosted by the Wikimedia Foundation, a non-profit organization which also hosts other free-content projects: Imagine a world in which every single human being can freely share in the sum of all knowledge. That's our commitment. And we need your help: Contribute to our projects, or make a donation. Donations are primarily used for site maintenance and software improvements. Retrieved from "https://en.wikisource.org/w/index.php?title=Main_Page&oldid=11268798" Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Main page Discussion Variants expanded collapsed Views Read View source View history More expanded collapsed Search Navigation Main Page Community portal Central discussion Recent changes Subject index Authors Random work Random author Random transcription Help Donate Display Options Tools What links here Related changes Special pages Permanent link Page information Cite this page Wikidata item Download/print Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons MediaWiki Meta-Wiki Multilingual Wikisource Wikispecies Wikibooks Wikidata Wikimania Wikinews Wikipedia Wikiquote Wikiversity Wikivoyage Wiktionary In other languages ??????? ??????? Az?rbaycanca Basa Bali ?????????? ????????? ????? Brezhoneg Bosanski Català ?eština Cymraeg Dansk Deutsch ???????? Esperanto Español Eesti Euskara ????? Suomi Føroyskt Français Galego ??????? ????? ?????? Hrvatski Magyar ??????? Bahasa Indonesia Íslenska Italiano ??? Jawa ????? ??? Latina Limburgs Ligure Lietuvi? ?????????? ?????? ????? Napulitano Nederlands Norsk ????? ?????? Polski Piemontèis Português Român? ??????? ????????? ???? ???? Sloven?ina Slovenš?ina ?????? / srpski Svenska ????? ?????? ??? Türkçe ?????????? Vèneto Ti?ng Vi?t Walon ?????? ?? Bân-lâm-gú Edit links This page was last edited on 10 May 2021, at 09:23. Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Privacy policy About Wikisource Disclaimers Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement