Junior Backend (Python / Django) Engineer (m/f/x) at Alasco - Stack Overflow
Junior Backend (Python / Django) Engineer (m/f/x) at Alasco  - Stack Overflow Stack Overflow About Products For Teams Stack Overflow Public questions & answers Stack Overflow for Teams Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers Jobs Programming & related technical career opportunities Talent Recruit tech talent & build your employer brand Advertising Reach developers & technologists worldwide About the company Loading… Log in Sign up current community Stack Overflow help chat Meta Stack Overflow your communities Sign up or log in to customize your list. more stack exchange communities company blog Home Public Questions Tags Users Collectives Explore Collectives Find a Job Jobs Companies Teams Stack Overflow for Teams – Collaborate and share knowledge with a private group. Create a free Team What is Teams? Teams Create free Team Collectives on Stack Overflow Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most. Learn more Teams Q&A for work Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search. Learn more Jobs Companies Why Jobs? Applications Developer Story You’ve submitted an application. View all your job applications in one central place. Junior Backend (Python / Django) Engineer (m/f/x) Alasco – München, Germany €50k - 65k | Equity On-site and limited remote Visa sponsor Paid relocation Save Save Share via email Share via Twitter Share via Facebook Report Dismiss Overview Company Developer Culture More Jobs React to this job: 1 0 0 Posted 8 days ago About this job Job type: Full-time Experience level: Junior Role: Backend Developer Industry: Construction, Real Estate, SaaS Company size: 51-200 people Company type: VC Funded Remote details Employer's note: Alasco FlexWeek: 2 days in the office, 3 days remote, 4 weeks Workation from EU-countries per year Visa Sponsorship: Yes Relocation Assistance: Yes Technologies djangopythonreactjsamazon-web-servicesfastapi Job description You want to digitise the construction and real estate industry with us? Be a Frontrunner in Real Estate Success Software! ? Our Engineering Team is looking for new colleagues: Junior Backend (Python / Django) Engineer (m/f/x): Your Responsibilities Together with your team, you ship new features for our cloud platform. Thereby you actively participate in delivering the best software possible for our customers. You learn about the customers needs and processes and strive to solve them as quickly as possible. You strive to deliver the best possible experience for our users by empowering them through an effective software. You build features with an “you build it, you run it” mindset and are responsible for testing, deployment and monitoring of your code. Your Profile You have first knowledge of Python and experience with one of the popular frameworks (e.g. Django, flask). You have experience in software engineering of larger projects, preferably B2B or SaaS products. You don’t worry setting up a local dev environment, spinning up a Docker container on an AWS instance or resolving a couple of merge conflicts. You value clean code (if pylint fails, you don’t commit). You have been part of an agile development team. You favor open communication, constant feedback and short decision paths. You have a “never-stop-learning” attitude and a desire to develop and grow. You are fluent in English. Your Benefits 2.000 Euro annual personal development budget Share in Alasco’s success in the form of Employee Stock Option Plans Permanent Contracts, Flexible Working Hours, Flexweek (2 days Office & 3 days flexible) and Workation in other EU countries Regular Team Events High-quality Equipment Office at a Top Location in Leopoldstraße (underground station Giselastraße) Open feedback culture, with biweekly 1:1s with your Teamlead & quarterly Feedback sessions Experienced Founder Team with flat hierarchies A lot of personal responsibility & creative possibilities At Alasco we use technologies, which enable us to provide our users with tools to reach their goals and to deliver at a fast pace. Our Backend services run on Python, Django and Postgres in Docker containers. The Frontend layer is based on JavaScript and React, Bootstrap and Sass with Webpack. We leverage AWS services by running our containers in Elastic Beanstalk and benefit from RDS, CloudWatch etc. Our teams ship code with the mindset of “you build it, you run it”. We manage our code in GitHub and use tools like CircleCI and Codacy to maintain a high quality standard in our codebase. Make sure to visit our TechBlog for further insights. Or meet part of the team here. About the company Alasco We digitalize the construction planning and execution process through a cloud-based workflow platform. Follow your favorite companies By selecting follow, you are opting in to receive an email digest from the companies you follow. Don't worry, your information isn't shared. Follow Follow your favorite companies By selecting follow, you are opting in to receive an email digest from the companies you follow. Don't worry, your information isn't shared. Follow Our vision at Alasco is to digitise the most valuable industry in the world: Construction & Real Estate. How? With smart workflows, digital networking and efficient controlling of real estate projects in just one SaaS solution, we're sure we can do it. Benefits Up to 2.000€ financial support for learning materials and seminars. Stock options for our employees! Open office space with amazing coworkers! Flexible working hours. Joint team lunches and regular team events. Paid relocation and visa sponsorship Possibility to shape Alasco with your own ideas! There is no bad idea! Our central office is perfectly connected to the MVV! People Sebastian Schuon Founder / Entrepreneur 73 1 5 basti 2.6k 3 27 44 Learn more about Alasco More jobs at Alasco Okay, you won’t see this job anymore. Undo Senior Backend (Python / Django) Engineer (m/f/x) Alasco • München, Germany djangopythonreactjsamazon-web-servicesfastapi 8d ago €65k–85k Equity Limited remote Visa sponsor Paid relocation Okay, you won’t see this job anymore. Undo Junior Frontend (TypeScript / React) Engineer (m/f/x) Alasco • München, Germany reactjsamazon-web-servicestypescriptjavascripthtml 8d ago €50k–65k Equity Limited remote Visa sponsor Paid relocation Okay, you won’t see this job anymore. Undo Senior Frontend (TypeScript / React) Engineer (m/f/x) Alasco • München, Germany reactjsamazon-web-servicestypescriptjavascript 8d ago €65k–85k Equity Limited remote Visa sponsor Paid relocation Want to get notified about new jobs at Alasco? Create a company alert Your job search status has been updated. Are you looking for a job? When you create a Developer Story, we’ll accelerate your matches and get you in front of employers ASAP. Create a Developer Story Junior Backend (Python / Django) Engineer (m/f/x) at Alasco Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Help Mobile Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Service Contact Us Cookie Settings Cookie Policy Stack Exchange Network Technology Culture & recreation Life & arts Science Professional Business API Data Blog Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram site design / logo © 2021 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa. rev 2021.11.30.40849 Stack Overflow works best with JavaScript enabled Your privacy By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy. Accept all cookies Customize settings