Backend Software Engineer at Mimacom - Stack Overflow
Backend Software Engineer at Mimacom  - Stack Overflow Stack Overflow About Products For Teams Stack Overflow Public questions & answers Stack Overflow for Teams Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers Jobs Programming & related technical career opportunities Talent Recruit tech talent & build your employer brand Advertising Reach developers & technologists worldwide About the company Loading… Log in Sign up current community Stack Overflow help chat Meta Stack Overflow your communities Sign up or log in to customize your list. more stack exchange communities company blog Home Public Questions Tags Users Collectives Explore Collectives Find a Job Jobs Companies Teams Stack Overflow for Teams – Collaborate and share knowledge with a private group. Create a free Team What is Teams? Teams Create free Team Collectives on Stack Overflow Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most. Learn more Teams Q&A for work Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search. Learn more Jobs Companies Why Jobs? Applications Developer Story You’ve submitted an application. View all your job applications in one central place. Backend Software Engineer Mimacom – Valencia, Spain Remote Save Save Share via email Share via Twitter Share via Facebook Report Dismiss Overview Company More Jobs React to this job: 0 0 0 Posted 15 days ago About this job Job type: Full-time Experience level: Mid-Level, Senior Role: Backend Developer Industry: Agile Software Development, Enterprise Software, Information Technology Company size: 201-500 people Company type: Private Remote details Preferred Timezone: (GMT+01:00) Madrid Office Location: Valencia, Spain. Employees can also work full time from this office. Technologies javaspring-bootmicroservices Job description At mimacom we like active minds. Do you like to attend events, write blogposts or be the speaker of a congress? At mimacom we love that you do it! We are hungry for technology. From our offices in Europe and the USA we offer innovative IT Consulting solutions to local and global clients. We help them to optimize their technological solutions to give the best service to their clients. Because your success is our success. Because each person counts. Because you will contribute to our growth. If you want to continue growing with training and certifications. If you are interested in being part of a proactive team that seeks continuous improvement. If you want to have your space to express your own ideas and opinions. If you prefer to enjoy a very flexible schedule and work remotely… At mimacom we will love to meet you and grow with you! Your Profile Proactive, team-player, open-minded personality with a passion for open source, new technologies and agile software development. 4+ years of experience as a Backend Software Engineer with a high level of proficiency in Java, Spring and Microservices. Sound knowledge of AWS and continuous integration tools such as Jenkins or Bamboo. Some notions of Golang will be very valuable. Good level in both English and Spanish. Candidates must be based in Spain (or archipelagoes) Your Challenge Design and develop software with a strong microservices orientation. Participate in the collection of requirements, give estimations, propose different approaches and make analysis documents. Bring code quality and good practices, and perform deployment, validations and verification testing. Stay up-to-date with open source trends and emerging technologies. Your Chance Work with cutting edge technologies in an Open Source world, while boosting your career with certifications, trainings, conferences, events, etc. Enjoy flat hierarchies, direct feedback and room to stand up for your own ideas. Feel free to investigate and suggest new and fresh ways to come up with solutions. Be part of an Agile and international environment and enjoy freedom with responsibility: Create and design your own schedule with flexitime and choose between remote or office work. Participate in cool team events: recording of podcast episodes, Lunch&Learn, Coffee&Tech and many more! About the company Mimacom mimacom's more than 350 specialists create software solutions to accelerate your growth and success in the digital era. Follow your favorite companies By selecting follow, you are opting in to receive an email digest from the companies you follow. Don't worry, your information isn't shared. Follow Follow your favorite companies By selecting follow, you are opting in to receive an email digest from the companies you follow. Don't worry, your information isn't shared. Follow We are an international service provider whose constant is the excitement for Java, open-source and agility. We are convinced that there is always a better way to build user-friendly and robust software. As a young, dynamic and steadily growing company, with approximately 350 employees we have the courage to constantly question ourselves and to venture into new things, be into new technology or different approaches. There will not be an ordinary job waiting for you. But if innovation and building something motivates you and you are ready to demonstrate your abilities within a company with perspective and ambitious goals daily, we should really get in touch. Benefits Flexible time Working from home Choose your own device flexible remuneration package Individual development plans Learn more about Mimacom More jobs at Mimacom Okay, you won’t see this job anymore. Undo Full-Stack Engineer Mimacom • Bern, Switzerland springjavaangularjavascripttypescript 2d ago Limited remote Paid relocation Okay, you won’t see this job anymore. Undo Full Stack Developer Mimacom • Denver, CO javaspringjavascriptreactjsangular 6d ago Remote Okay, you won’t see this job anymore. Undo Cloud Automation Engineer (m/w/d) Mimacom • Stuttgart, Deutschland amazon-web-servicesazuredevops 5d ago €50k–95k Visa sponsor Paid relocation Want to get notified about new jobs at Mimacom? Create a company alert Your job search status has been updated. Are you looking for a job? When you create a Developer Story, we’ll accelerate your matches and get you in front of employers ASAP. Create a Developer Story Backend Software Engineer at Mimacom Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Help Mobile Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Service Contact Us Cookie Settings Cookie Policy Stack Exchange Network Technology Culture & recreation Life & arts Science Professional Business API Data Blog Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram site design / logo © 2021 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa. rev 2021.11.30.40849 Stack Overflow works best with JavaScript enabled Your privacy By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy. Accept all cookies Customize settings