Software Developer - APIs at JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. - Stack Overflow
Software Developer - APIs at JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.  - Stack Overflow Stack Overflow About Products For Teams Stack Overflow Public questions & answers Stack Overflow for Teams Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers Jobs Programming & related technical career opportunities Talent Recruit tech talent & build your employer brand Advertising Reach developers & technologists worldwide About the company Loading… Log in Sign up current community Stack Overflow help chat Meta Stack Overflow your communities Sign up or log in to customize your list. more stack exchange communities company blog Home Public Questions Tags Users Collectives Explore Collectives Find a Job Jobs Companies Teams Stack Overflow for Teams – Collaborate and share knowledge with a private group. Create a free Team What is Teams? Teams Create free Team Collectives on Stack Overflow Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most. Learn more Teams Q&A for work Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search. Learn more Jobs Companies Why Jobs? Applications Developer Story You’ve submitted an application. View all your job applications in one central place. Software Developer - APIs JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. – London, UK Save Save Share via email Share via Twitter Share via Facebook Report Dismiss Overview Company More Jobs React to this job: 0 0 0 Posted 9 days ago About this job Job type: Full-time Role: Backend Developer, QA/Test Developer Industry: Financial Services Company size: 10k+ people Company type: Public Technologies apitestingjavascript Job description As a member of our Wholesale Payments Engineering & Architecture Group, we look first and foremost for people who are passionate around solving business problems through innovation & engineering practices. You will be required to apply your depth of knowledge and expertise to the software development lifecycle, as well as partner continuously with your many stakeholders daily to stay focused on common goals. We embrace a culture of experimentation and constantly strive for improvement and learning. You'll work in a collaborative, trusting, thought-provoking environment-one that encourages diversity of thought and creative solutions that are in the best interests of our customers globally. As a Software Engineer for APIs you will be delivering JPMorgan's Wholesale Payments APIs and the tools to support them. You will work with the product, sales and engineering community to define the catalog of APIs that are the developer interface into JPMorgan Wholesale Payments. You will identify, design and implement the tools, platforms and methods necessary to support customers. You will work collaboratively to deliver a meaningful and comprehensive developer experience that includes developer portal and shared services that support the community of developers. This role requires a wide variety of strengths and capabilities, including: * Expertise in application, data, and infrastructure architecture disciplines * Knowledge of industry-wide technology trends and best practices * Ability to work in large, collaborative teams to achieve organizational goals, and passionate about building an innovative culture * Proficiency in modern programming languages (Java, Python, Node, JavaScript, etc.) * Collaboration with analysts, testers and key business partners for effective delivery and testing * Lead feature teams while breaking down complex stories into well understood and achievable tasks * Design, develop, code, test, debug and document applications to satisfy requirements * Produce high quality code utilizing Test Driven Development techniques * Ability to work collaboratively in teams, interact with key business users and develop meaningful relationships to achieve common goals * BA/BSC Tech Stack and Essential skills: * REST or RPC, microservice based architectures * OAS/Swagger, RAML or comparable tool * Data modeling concepts including data types, relationships, and JSON Schema (SQL or NoSQL experience a plus) * Front-end development (HTML, CSS & JS, etc.) Wholesale Payments Engineering & Architecture: J.P. Morgan's Corporate & Investment Bank is a global leader across banking, markets and investor services. The world's most important corporations, governments and institutions entrust us with their business in more than 100 countries. The Corporate & Investment Bank (CIB) provides strategic advice, raises capital, manages risk and extends liquidity in markets around the world. As examples of our size, complexity and criticality to the global financial system, we process more than 106 million transactions worth $6 trillion daily; process payments in more than 120 currencies and receive payments in more than 40 countries and 80% of Fortune 500 does business with us. The Engineering & Architecture function is a central team that operates horizontally across the 5000+ technologists delivering business solutions in the Wholesale Payments organization. We have responsibility for setting standards, policies and driving the documentation and adoption of pragmatic architectural patterns as we establish consistency and optimized technical outcomes in support of our aggressive business goals. We operate principally across six main domains: functional architecture, information architecture, technical architecture, infrastructure architecture, security architecture and engineering. With the group of highly technical SMEs in E&A, we have a very strong matrix alignment across each of the domains throughout the Wholesale Payments organization to inform and agree the output from E&A to ensure appropriateness and to facilitate localized help in driving adherence and identification of agreed exceptions. CIB (Corporate & Investment Bank) : Our Corporate & Investment Bank relies on innovators like you to build and maintain the technology that helps us safely service the world's important corporations, governments and institutions. You'll develop solutions for a bank entrusted with holding $18 trillion of assets and $393 billion in deposits. CIB provides strategic advice, raises capital, manages risk, and extends liquidity in markets spanning over 100 countries around the world. Technology at J.P Morgan: When you work at JPMorgan Chase & Co., you're not just working at a global financial institution. You're an integral part of one of the world's biggest tech companies. In 20 technology centers worldwide, our team of 50,000 technologists design, build and deploy everything from enterprise technology initiatives to big data and mobile solutions, as well as innovations in electronic payments, cybersecurity, machine learning, and cloud development. Our $10B+ annual investment in technology enables us to hire people to create innovative solutions that will are transforming the financial services industry. JPMorgan Chase & Co., one of the oldest financial institutions, offers innovative financial solutions to millions of consumers, small businesses and many of the world's most prominent corporate, institutional and government clients under the J.P. Morgan and Chase brands. Our history spans over 200 years and today we are a leader in investment banking, consumer and small business banking, commercial banking, financial transaction processing and asset management. We recognize that our people are our strength and the diverse talents they bring to our global workforce are directly linked to our success. We are an equal opportunity employer and place a high value on diversity and inclusion at our company. We do not discriminate on the basis of any protected attribute, including race, religion, color, national origin, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, age, marital or veteran status, pregnancy or disability, or any other basis protected under applicable law. In accordance with applicable law, we make reasonable accommodations for applicants' and employees' religious practices and beliefs, as well as any mental health or physical disability needs. The health and safety of our colleagues, candidates, clients and communities has been a top priority in light of the COVID-19 pandemic. JPMorgan Chase was awarded the "WELL Health-Safety Rating" for all of our 6,200 locations globally based on our operational policies, maintenance protocols, stakeholder engagement and emergency plans to address a post-COVID-19 environment. As a part of our commitment to health and safety, we have implemented various COVID-related health and safety requirements for our workforce. These requirements may include sharing information in the firm's vaccine record tool, vaccination or regular testing, mask wearing, social distancing and daily health checks. Requirements may change in the future with the evolving public health landscape. JPMorgan Chase will consider accommodation requests. Equal Opportunity Employer/Disability/Veterans About the company JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. www.jpmorganchase.com/techcareers Follow your favorite companies By selecting follow, you are opting in to receive an email digest from the companies you follow. Don't worry, your information isn't shared. Follow Follow your favorite companies By selecting follow, you are opting in to receive an email digest from the companies you follow. Don't worry, your information isn't shared. Follow Benefits Healthcare and Insurance Plans Wellness Programs Maternity and Paternity Leave, Adoption Assistance Retirement Savings Programs Paid Time Off Tuition Assistance Access to Arts and Entertainment Program Stock Purchase Plan Charitable Contribution Matching Learning & Development Resources Learn more about JPMorgan Chase & Co More jobs at JPMorgan Chase & Co. View all ›› Okay, you won’t see this job anymore. Undo Java Software Engineer JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. • Wilmington, DE javajavascriptapi 19h ago Be one of the first applicants Okay, you won’t see this job anymore. Undo Full Stack Software Engineer - Research Technology JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. • London, UK amazon-web-servicesjavacontinuous-integration 19h ago Okay, you won’t see this job anymore. Undo Full Stack Java Software Engineer, Backend JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. • Wilmington, DE reactjsjava 19h ago Okay, you won’t see this job anymore. Undo Full Stack Java Software Engineer, Backend JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. • Wilmington, DE reactjsjava 19h ago Be one of the first applicants Okay, you won’t see this job anymore. Undo Credit Technology - Front-End Software Engineer JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. • London, UK reactjsjavascripttesting 19h ago Want to get notified about new jobs at JPMorgan Chase & Co.? Create a company alert Your job search status has been updated. Are you looking for a job? When you create a Developer Story, we’ll accelerate your matches and get you in front of employers ASAP. Create a Developer Story Software Developer - APIs at JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Help Mobile Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Service Contact Us Cookie Settings Cookie Policy Stack Exchange Network Technology Culture & recreation Life & arts Science Professional Business API Data Blog Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram site design / logo © 2021 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa. rev 2021.11.30.40849 Stack Overflow works best with JavaScript enabled Your privacy By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy. Accept all cookies Customize settings