Principal Developer - Build better digital services for all UK citizens at UK Home Office - Stack Overflow
Principal Developer - Build better digital services for all UK citizens at UK Home Office  - Stack Overflow Stack Overflow About Products For Teams Stack Overflow Public questions & answers Stack Overflow for Teams Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers Jobs Programming & related technical career opportunities Talent Recruit tech talent & build your employer brand Advertising Reach developers & technologists worldwide About the company Loading… Log in Sign up current community Stack Overflow help chat Meta Stack Overflow your communities Sign up or log in to customize your list. more stack exchange communities company blog Home Public Questions Tags Users Collectives Explore Collectives Find a Job Jobs Companies Teams Stack Overflow for Teams – Collaborate and share knowledge with a private group. Create a free Team What is Teams? Teams Create free Team Collectives on Stack Overflow Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most. Learn more Teams Q&A for work Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search. Learn more Jobs Companies Why Jobs? Applications Developer Story You’ve submitted an application. View all your job applications in one central place. Principal Developer - Build better digital services for all UK citizens UK Home Office – No office location £63k - 89k Remote Save Save Share via email Share via Twitter Share via Facebook Report Dismiss Overview Company More Jobs React to this job: 0 1 0 Posted 14 hours ago About this job Job type: Full-time Experience level: Senior, Lead Industry: Agile Software Development, Government, Software Development / Engineering Company size: 1k-5k people Company type: Public Technologies javanode.jsjavascriptdockeramazon-web-services Job description Closing date: Monday 6th December Want to work on complex, large scale services for millions of people across the world? ? Want the opportunity to have a positive impact and work on stuff that really matters? ? If you've ticked both those boxes then this is definitely an opportunity you should apply to! As a Principal Developer, you'll be passionate about building software that solves problems. We’re home to some of the most important public services in the United Kingdom and you'll drive the technical delivery, providing technical leadership so we can continue to build, improve, and maintain important digital services relied upon by the UK public and government. You’ll ensure high-quality code is delivered in line with project goals and delivery cycles and you’ll thrive using agile methods. Your key areas of impact will be: leading and advising on design choices and ensuring that software is high quality and balances technical and business considerations providing support and direction across multiple teams through deep technical insight, to balance new and live services improving our continuous deployment pipelines - helping us to identify and remove bottlenecks and increase the speed at which we can get features into the hands of our users working with teams to identify areas for improvement, coaching and mentoring team members pioneering new approaches, defining and sharing best practices across teams ? What you'll need to be successful ? We are looking for people with deep technical expertise. All our principal developers have a responsibility for supporting delivery and developing the staff around them. You’ll have outstanding technical knowledge that allows you to provide support and direction across a number of teams. ?? You’ll either specialise in Frontend or Backend development ?? If you’re a backend developer, you’ll be expected to have substantial knowledge of: Java, Spring or NodeJS, SQL and no SQL databases If you’re a frontend developer, you’ll be expected to have substantial knowledge of: JavaScript, React, HTML, CSS and NodeJS as a server for web applications Alongside this all our Principal Developers will have experience in: improving continuous delivery/continuous deployment environments where code is released to production multiple times per day leading on test driven development, using testing to validate solutions and promoting a culture of test-driven development agile development methodologies, including writing and taking ownership of stories secure development practices a cloud-based approach, selecting cloud components and defining infrastructure as code to integrate them (AWS, Azure, Docker and Kubernetes) ? Some of the benefits our engineers love ? 35 days leave including public holidays, rising further with?service flexible working options to enable you to achieve the work life balance that right for you including part-time, flexi time and job sharing civil service pension with an average employer contribution of about 27% training and development opportunities interest free season ticket?loan an in-year bonus?scheme A culture encouraging inclusion and diversity About the company Logo provided by Crunchbase UK Home Office The Home Office is the lead government department for immigration and passports, drugs policy, crime, fire, counter-terrorism and police. Follow your favorite companies By selecting follow, you are opting in to receive an email digest from the companies you follow. Don't worry, your information isn't shared. Follow Follow your favorite companies By selecting follow, you are opting in to receive an email digest from the companies you follow. Don't worry, your information isn't shared. Follow Home Office DDaT develops and maintains over 500 services which have millions of users all over the world. We have some really exciting work going on, which is being executed in a user-focussed manner using industry leading cloud platforms: Building and maintaining wide variety of gov.uk services you may be familiar with, including getting married or forming a civil partnership or applying for a visa Ensuring that the application and delivery of passports is efficient - completing the build of our award-winning digital application system Re-developing core policing data systems to ensure they are effective and provide a solid basis for innovation Updating tools to ensure that our borders are efficient for both passengers and border officials Ensuring that we have a world-class immigration systems which is usable by all If you are looking for rapid paced greenfield development work, which is personally critical to users, then we would love to hear from you. Benefits 25 days annual leave, plus 8 days public holidays and 1 privilege day Civil Service pension (employer contribution rates between 26 - 30%) Flexible working, such as compressed hours and working from home Great development opportunities Interest free season ticket and bicycle loans Fitness centre and staff canteen (some locations only) Opportunity to work on Greenfield projects transforming Government Learn more about UK Home Office More jobs at UK Home Office View all ›› Okay, you won’t see this job anymore. Undo Senior Software Developer - Node.js | React | AWS | TDD | CI/CD UK Home Office • Manchester, UK javaamazon-web-servicesc#javascriptkubernetes 20d ago £52k–65k Limited remote Okay, you won’t see this job anymore. Undo Senior Frontend Developer - Design accessible, user centred services for all! UK Home Office • London, UK reactjsjavascriptnode.jshtmlcss 14h ago £57k–74k Limited remote Okay, you won’t see this job anymore. Undo Senior Software Developer UK Home Office • Sheffield, UK javaamazon-web-servicesnode.jsjavascriptc# 16d ago £52k–65k Limited remote Okay, you won’t see this job anymore. Undo Senior Software Developer UK Home Office • Salford, UK javaamazon-web-servicesnode.jsjavascriptc# 23d ago £52k–65k Limited remote Okay, you won’t see this job anymore. Undo DevOps Engineer - Redefine how we build and deploy services for citizens UK Home Office • Croydon, UK amazon-web-servicesazuredockerkubernetesterraformsysadmin 14h ago Be one of the first applicants £42k–54k Limited remote Want to get notified about new jobs at UK Home Office? Create a company alert Your job search status has been updated. Are you looking for a job? When you create a Developer Story, we’ll accelerate your matches and get you in front of employers ASAP. Create a Developer Story Principal Developer - Build better digital services for all UK citizens at UK Home Office Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Help Mobile Products Teams Talent Advertising Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Service Contact Us Cookie Settings Cookie Policy Stack Exchange Network Technology Culture & recreation Life & arts Science Professional Business API Data Blog Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram site design / logo © 2021 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa. rev 2021.11.30.40849 Stack Overflow works best with JavaScript enabled Your privacy By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy. Accept all cookies Customize settings